   #The Local » Feed The Local » Comments Feed The Local » Reader
   question: Is the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis really a no-go zone?
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NMLDXPL

   Read news from:
   Austria
     * Europe
     * Austria
     * Denmark
     * France
     * Germany
     * Italy
     * Norway
     * Spain
     * Sweden
     * Switzerland

   France's news in English
   The Local
     * News
          + Talking France podcast
          + Travel news
          + Politics
          + John Lichfield
          + Brexit
          + Covid-19
          + Paris
     * Podcast
     * Practical tips
          + Moving to France
          + Studying in France
          + Living costs
          + Reader questions
          + French citizenship
          + Visas
          + Pensions
          + Tax
     * Learn about France
          + French traditions
          + Travel – Discover France
          + French history
          + French habits
          + French cuisine
     * Language
          + French language
          + French Word of the Day
     * Property
          + Second homes
          + Renting
          + Property Sales
          + Find rentals
     * Jobs
          + Working in France

Sections

   Latest news2022 ElectionTalking France PodcastCovid-19
   Living in FranceFrench cultureFrance: Learning FrenchBrexit

Membership

   My accountLog inStudent accessCorporate
   NewslettersHelp centerGift voucher

The Local

   Search siteContact usWho we are
   Send us a storyAdvertise with us

Editions

   AustriaEuropeGermanyNorwaySweden
   DenmarkFranceItalySpainSwitzerland

Services

   Jobs in FranceNoticeboard
   Apartment rentals

SOCIAL

   Search ____________________ (BUTTON)

   SHARE
   COPY LINK

PARIS

Reader question: Is the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis really a no-go zone?

   Chaos and violence at the Champions League final on Saturday has put
   the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis - home of the Stade de France - back
   into the spotlight. We answer your questions about the area.
   Published: 2 June 2022 11:14 CEST
   Updated: 4 June 2022 11:19 CEST
   Reader question: Is the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis really a no-go
   zone?
   Photo by JACQUES DEMARTHON / AFP

   Speaking before the Champions League final on Saturday, French
   ex-footballer Thierry Henry told an American news channel “The final is
   not in Paris, it’s in Saint-Denis. Trust me, you don’t want to be in
   Saint-Denis”.

     Thierry Henry before the Champions League Final:

     “The final is in Saint-Denis, not Paris. Trust me, you don’t want to
     be in Saint-Denis.” pic.twitter.com/UJmhb9lUQm

     — Zach Lowy (@ZachLowy) May 29, 2022

   Among other documented problems at the final between Liverpool FC and
   Real Madrid was the presence of gangs of “local” youths, who mugged and
   attacked fans, particularly after the match, as many have testified to
   in shocking accounts by Spanish and Liverpool fans.

   Many others attempted to force their way into the stadium to see the
   final.

   So was Henry right?

   Well Henry (who was born in one of Paris’ outer suburbs, about 40km
   from Saint-Denis) was right about one thing, technically the stadium is
   not in Paris.

   The city of Paris is only the area inside the périphérique ringroad,
   outside that is the inner suburbs – known as the petite couronne –
   which are split into three départements – Seine-Saint-Denis to the
   north and east, Val-de-Marne to the south and east and Hauts-de-Seine
   to the west.

   This is useful for fans to know, because it affects the type of ticket
   you buy for public transport.

   Are events at the stadium always like this?

   Stade de France is the French national stadium, it hosts many football
   and rugby events at both club and international level and is also a
   popular concert venue. During the pandemic it became a giant vaccine
   centre.

   The causes of the chaos at the Champions League final are still under
   investigation by UEFA but one thing that we can say is that the events
   around Saturday’s match appear very particular to this final. Most
   sports fixtures and concerts at the stadium pass off without incident
   or at least without major problems reported in the media.

   The stadium held the French cup final just a week before the Champions
   League final without any major incidents reported around access to the
   stadium or attacks by local gangs on fans. Fans of the two teams Nantes
   and Nice did however clash in other parts of Paris.

   The last time there was a major security incident at the stadium was
   the terror attack in November 2015. That night, three bombers wearing
   suicide belts tried but failed to gain access to the stadium and blew
   themselves up outside, leaving one dead.

   Following that attack security was heightened massively for the Euro
   2016 tournament.

   So what was Henry referring to?

   The commune of Saint-Denis is part of the département (county) of
   Seine-Saint-Denis, which is one of France’s poorest areas. Although
   within the département there are some lovely small towns that are
   popular with Parisian commuters, there are also areas that have high
   levels of poverty and crime.

   Due to its reputation the whole département is often referred to
   pejoratively in France as just “93” or Quatre–vingt–treize or Neuf
   trois which is the the administrative number of the département.

   READ ALSO No, Paris suburbs are not all deprived and crime-ridden

   The area is also racially mixed and many immigrants, asylum seekers and
   undocumented workers end up here.

   The most recent crime figures from Saint-Denis show 14,000 crimes
   recorded per year, among the 11,000 inhabitants – the majority of which
   (48.6 percent) were theft and vandalism, followed by violence against
   the person (30 percent), economic crime (8 percent) and other crime and
   minor offences such as speeding (13 percent).

   This makes the crime rate in Saint-Denis roughly double the French
   average, but comparable to other urban areas in the country.

   Crime in the town is acknowledged by its mayor Mathieu Hanotin.

   “Yes, we have problems of delinquency and crime in Saint-Denis. Every
   day I fight against the problems of delinquency,” Hanotin said after
   the final.

   “I have doubled the number of municipal police, we are going to triple
   them by the end of next year compared to when I arrived in charge two
   years ago. There is no question about that.”

   IFRAME:
   https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d167827.0996829338
   5!2d2.305737363868313!3d48.909706171943704!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2
   i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x47e66cc6c757e04d%3A0x30b82c3688b2b50!2sSeine-Sa
   int-Denis!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sfr!4v1654174369468!5m2!1sen!2sfr

   The areas of France that have the highest recorded crime are –
   unsurprisingly – the biggest cities. The highest crime areas in order
   are; Paris, Seine-Saint-Denis, Bouches-du-Rhone (which contains
   Marseille), Rhône (which includes Lyon) and Hauts-de-Seine (another
   Paris suburb).

   If you remember the riots from 2005, those largely took place in
   Seine-Saint-Denis département and there are frequent conflicts between
   locals and police – with high-profile cases where police have been
   accused of heavy-handedness and racism.

   So who were the local youths causing trouble and why were they there?

   Well according to extreme-right pundit (and convicted racist) Eric
   Zemmour they are simply racaille – a racially loaded word that
   translates as ‘scum’.

   The mayor of Saint-Denis says these youths were not just from the town
   but from all over the Paris region who came to the Stade de France and
   the surrounding area specifically because of the Champions League
   final.

   They came because they saw easy pickings, Hanotin believes.

   “What you have to realise is that this event is so attractive for
   everyone. For the fans [excluding the 40,000 tickets given to Liverpool
   and Real Madrid football clubs] there were 7,000 tickets on sale and 1
   million requests.

   “It was also attractive for delinquents, and it became the gathering
   point for delinquents from across the Île-de-France region who saw the
   good deal because, in a nutshell, it smelled of money – if you don’t
   mind me saying so – and who came to rob the Madrid supporters and the
   English too. And there we didn’t have a police force that was adapted
   to this phenomenon”.

   In total there were 105 arrests made linked to the Champions League
   final, of which 29 were made in the immediate vicinity of the stadium.
   Of those 29, more than half were British including seven Brits arrested
   for attempting to enter the stadium without a ticket.

   The remaining 77 arrests took place in the surrounding
   Seine-Saint-Denis area and did not involve any UK nationals. Full
   details of those arrests have not been released but French media report
   that most of them are local to the Seine-Saint-Denis area.

   In total 48 people were remanded in custody for offences of theft,
   violence or selling fake tickets. None of those arrested for having a
   fake ticket or trying to get into the stadium were kept in custody.

   So avoid Saint-Denis at all costs?

   The Madrid and Liverpool fans caught up in the chaos and post-match
   violence will understandably have deep reservations about ever
   returning to the area again in future.

   But in ordinary circumstances there’s no need to avoid the centre of
   Saint-Denis. There are certain parts of the Seine-Saint-Denis
   département where it is not wise for visitors to venture, but
   Saint-Denis isn’t one of them – at least not the centre and not during
   the day.

   It’s home to a major tourist site – the Basilica de Saint-Denis which
   holds the remains of Saint Denis, who is the patron saint of both
   France and Paris and was martyred around the second century AD. Over 2
   million people visited the Basilica in 2019.

   The Basilica is not the only cultural site in the town, there’s also
   the Cité de Cinema and the Museum of Art and History.

   Inhabitants wait in front of the Basilica Cathedral of Saint-Denis
   during a campaign visit of French President and La Republique en Marche
   (LREM) party candidate for re-election at the “Place Victor Hugo” in
   Saint-Denis, a northern suburb of Paris, on April 21, 2022. (Photo by
   Ludovic MARIN / POOL / AFP)

   READ ALSO 5 things to know about the Paris suburb of Saint-Denis

   And as visitors and inhabitants will attest there are plenty of
   pleasant bars, restaurants and café terraces in the centre of the town.

   As we mentioned above though, it does have some problems with crime, so
   visitors need to take care of their personal belongings.

   Fans driving to the stadium who have expensive cars would be best
   advised to use stadium parking (or park elsewhere and get public
   transport to the ground) rather than leave them in town.

   Future

   If you take RER B from Charles de Gaulle airport into Paris you will
   pass through Saint-Denis and one of the things you will certainly
   notice is the large number of building sites in the area.

   This is related to the 2024 Paris Olympics, as Saint-Denis has been
   chosen to house the athletes village. New accommodation is being built
   and once the games are over this will become housing for locals, since
   there is a housing shortage in the area.

   There’s also a new Aquatics centre being built in Saint-Denis, while
   the Paris 2024 organising committee has its offices in the commune.

   The Stade de France will of course play a prominent role in the Games,
   hosting events including athletics (although not the opening ceremony,
   which will be staged in the open air along the River Seine to allow up
   to 600,000 spectators to attend.)


    The Local ([email protected])

Related Topics

   PARISCRIMEFRANCE EXPLAINED

   (BUTTON) SHOW COMMENTS

Member comments

   Log in here to leave a comment.
   Become a Member to leave a comment.

   Six French films with English subtitles that you don't want to miss in
   January
   LEARNING FRENCH
   Six French films with English subtitles that you don’t want to miss in
   January
   'Yellow vest' leaders call for resurgence to protest French pension
   reform
   PROTESTS
   ‘Yellow vest’ leaders call for resurgence to protest French pension
   reform

LEARNING FRENCH

Six French films with English subtitles that you don’t want to miss in
January

   Cinema club Lost in Frenchlation is showing six French films with
   English subtitles this month. Here's what's coming up in Paris and
   Normandy.
   Published: 4 January 2023 14:02 CET
   Six French films with English subtitles that you don't want to miss in
   January

   Saturday, January 7th

   Couleurs de l’Incendie

   Club de l’Étoile, 14 Rue Troyon, Paris 8

   Tickets: €10, €8 concessions – available here

   Prolific actor-director Clovis Cornillac was behind the camera for this
   captivating inter-war drama – adapted by author Pierre Lemaitre from
   the second book in his trilogy –  in which an heiress (the astonishing
   Léa Drucker) struggles rebuild her life and her family’s fortunes when
   her father dies suddenly, leaving her in charge of his financial
   empire, and caring for her disabled son.

   The film starts at 8pm, with pre-screening drinks available from 7pm.

   A two-hour walking tour of the history of cinema around the Eiffel
   Tower is also available from 5pm for €15 here

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/0x7cuJFiF0Q?feature=oembed

   Friday, January 13th

   Saint Omer

   L’Entrepôt Cinema, 7 Rue Francis de Pressensé, Paris 14

   Tickets: €8.50, €7 concessions – available here

   Director Alice Diop, better known for her documentary work, dips into
   fiction – with a heavy dose of reality – with this legal drama “ripped
   from the headlines”, according to indiewire, about a pregnant novelist
   who plans a Medea-style story from the trial of a young woman accused
   of killing her 15-month-old daughter … only to learn lessons about
   herself and her preconceptions of parenthood.

   The film starts at 8pm, with pre-screening drinks available from 7pm.
   Afterwards, there will be a Q&A session with Guslagie Malanda, who
   plays the mother in the dock.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/iWw-EyrG5Sw?feature=oembed

   READ ALSO Cinema: English-subtitled French films to screen in Charente
   and Normandy

   Thursday, January 19th

   Les Enfants des Autres

   Luminor Hotel de Ville, 20 Rue du Temple, Paris 4

   Tickets €11 – available here, or €4 with a Telerama Pass discount

   Rebecca Zlotowski’s acclaimed Venice Film Festival entry – described by
   The Guardian as “a gentle, heartfelt relationship drama about, and for,
   intelligent adults” – tells the story of a 40-year-old woman (Virginie
   Efira) who opens up an emotional can of worms when develops a powerful
   bond with the four-year-old daughter of the man she has just started
   dating.

   The film starts at 8pm, with pre-screening drinks available from 7pm.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/OKpgxjnCNKk?feature=oembed

   Wednesday, January 25th

   Les Rascals

   Café des images, Square du Théâtre, Hérouville-Saint-Clair, Normandy

   Tickets: €7.50, €6.50 concessions – available here

   Screenwriter Jimmy Laporal-Tresor’s debut as a director follows a gang
   of suburban youths in the 1980s, whose carefree, consequence-free
   lifestyles are upended after one of them attacks a rival in a record
   store – not realising the chain of events that will follow.

   The film starts at 9pm, with pre-screening drinks at Café Polyglotte
   from 7pm.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/kNm4IH-J_90?feature=oembed

   Thursday, January 26th

   Mon Héroïne

   L’Arlequin, 76 Rue de Rennes, Paris 6

   Tickets: €10, €8 concessions – available here

   An impossible dream story as old as the hills, with a modern French
   dose of je ne sais quoi… A cosseted young woman from Rouen dreams of
   making it as a screenwriter and jets off to New York to find Julia
   Roberts and persuade the Hollywood star to read her script.

   The film starts at 8pm, with pre-screening drinks available from 7pm.
   The film is followed by a Q&A with director Noémie Lefort.

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/XxJsfppZc6Y?feature=oembed

   Monday, January 30th

   La Passagère

   Cinéma du Panthéon, 13 rue Victor Cousin, Paris 5

   Tickets: €8, €6.50 concessions  – available on the door, or reserve
   here

   Héloïse Pelloquet’s drama about a married woman whose apparently
   idyllic lifestyle on a small island off the Atlantic coast is thrown
   into turmoil by a new arrival.

   The film starts at 8pm, with pre-screening drinks available from 7pm.
   The film will be followed by a Q&A.

   A Women of Paris walking tour, devoted entirely to women’s history and
   influence, is also available from 5pm for €15 here

   IFRAME: https://www.youtube.com/embed/V_N9maYQRCU?feature=oembed


    The Local [email protected] @thelocalfrance

   SHOW COMMENTS (BUTTON) Read this article

   France investigating ex-archbishop over 'sexual assault'
   CRIME
   France investigating ex-archbishop over ‘sexual assault’
   Paris suburb renamed 'to symbolise gender equality'
   PARIS
   Paris suburb renamed ‘to symbolise gender equality’

   Url copied to clipboard!
   (BUTTON)

   The Local Europe AB
   Vasagatan 10
   111 20 Stockholm
   Sweden
     * About us
     * Contact us
     * Become a member
     * My Account
     * Newsletters options

     * Advertise with us
     * Post a job ad

     * Terms of use
     * Privacy policy
     * Cookie Settings

   (BUTTON) Cookie Settings
   App store App store

   modal logo Please whitelist us to continue reading.

   So this website can function correctly please whitelist The Local with
   your adblocker, antivirus software or browser add on.

   Please visit the help centre for more information
