   MenuSearch
   [wswslogo4red.png] [wswslogo4red.png] [wswslogo4red.png]
   LatestProfile
   English
   Contact|About|
   International Committee of the Fourth International (ICFI)
   MenuSearch
   International Committee of the Fourth International (ICFI)
   [wswslogo4red.png] [wswslogo4red.png] [wswslogo4red.png]
   LatestProfile
     *
     *

     * Perspectives
     * World
     * Global class struggle
     * Pandemic
     * Arts & Culture
     * History
     * Capitalism & Inequality
     * Anti-Imperialism
     * Videos
     * Podcast
     * Marxist Library); }

     *

     * Fourth International
     * Socialist Equality Party
     * IYSSE
     * About the WSWS
     * Contact
     * Donate

Students at Joliot-Curie high school near Paris denounce police attacks

   Samuel Tissot
   23 October 2022
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Last week, WSWS journalists interviewed high school students at the
   Joliot-Curie high school in Nanterre, a suburb of Paris. For the past
   two weeks, police have been attacking students at the school, with 18
   students arrested and several injured. The statements collected by WSWS
   reveal that this is a provocation by the police against youth from a
   working class suburb.

   The first protests on October 10 were peaceful, according to the
   testimonies of all the students. On the 11th, the police surrounded the
   youth in front of the school and then attacked them with tear gas, tear
   gas grenades, and batons and arrested fourteen of them. On the 18th,
   another confrontation resulted in four arrests. When WSWS spoke to the
   students, one student was still in the hospital.
   [loading.gif]
   Loading Tweet ...
   Tweet not loading? See it directly on Twitter

   One student, Sara, explained why the students blocked the school:
   'First, students protested against the cancelling of a homework help
   program which helped a lot (but) was taken away, and they protested for
   the right to wear clothes that were banned as religious when they are
   not religious.'

   According to Awa, 'The blockades were peaceful, there was no violence.
   The only thing the students did was put padlocks on the door.'

   Sophiane, age 15, had his arm in a sling after being thrown to the
   ground by the police. He said, 'the police started charging at us. They
   came, they started gassing us, they dislocated my shoulder. Now I'll be
   in a splint for at least a month and a half. It is very complicated for
   me. My family is suffering. There are people, they are traumatized in
   my class with everything that happened and it's hard for our future.'

   Sara confirmed that the police started the violence: 'They started
   throwing tear gas canisters at us, attacking us'

   Awa testified that the police gassed the high school students, some of
   whom were hit by the tear gas canisters: 'The gas stings your throat,
   that, like your eyes. You feel your eyes tear up when you're right next
   to the gas. Your eyes are all red. You have a hard time breathing all
   around.'

   Awa said police threw stun grenades at the high school students. She
   also saw police arrest a 15-year-old high school student and several
   veiled high school girls.

   Another student, Noya, said the police violence on October 11 was a
   provocation prepared by a squad of more than 50 cops who arrived at the
   school early in the morning: 'They came with shin guards, they had
   helmets, they had batons, they had guns, they had flash balls ... they
   had the whole thing.' Awa added that the high school students, on the
   other hand, had nothing.

   Noya emphasized the impact of the violence on the high school students:
   'All the students who were put in a lecture hall, a big room. There
   were some who were in a bad way. They cried and they fainted because of
   the shock of what had happened to them.'

   The police crackdown was so broad that it even affected passers-by in
   the neighborhood, Awa said: 'You go by where there are kids, there are
   little ones who were gassed. There was a grandmother who was running
   because they practically started gassing her.'

   According to Awa, 'They searched almost every person they found
   quote-unquote suspicious, that is, blacks and Arabs. Nobody was armed,
   nobody had anything.' She then recounted the accounts she had heard of
   police violence against the detained high school students, 'I was told
   that they were not fed. I had been hit, it was nonsense. Why do the
   police hit so hard? Minors? They are hitting people who are not even
   fifteen years old.'

   According to Awa and Noya, since the police assault, numerous police
   buses have surrounded the school every morning at 7 a.m. to keep an eye
   on students entering the establishment.

   Students told WSWS that despite the brutal violence directed at the
   students, the school's administration defends the police action. After
   the assault, injured and traumatized students were forced to continue
   with classes as if nothing had occurred.

   Despite the police repression, students at Joliot-Curie also joined the
   wave of blockades and demonstrations on October 18, in solidarity with
   the interprofessional strike that day. One high school student
   expressed his opposition to the requisitioning of strikers at the
   refineries: 'We're just trying to show that we're against it, to show
   that we can demand our social rights.'

   Asked about the reasons for the police assault on Joliot-Curie, Awa
   said that the high school students 'wanted to be listened to, they made
   a blockade, and they are young people from the suburbs. The police, as
   a result, are going to say to themselves 'no, they are dangerous,'
   immediately, because in France, we have a problem: people who come from
   the suburbs are automatically type-cast as criminals, as violent
   people, when this is not at all the case. If you took the time to be in
   Nanterre, you would see there is a spirit of solidarity between blacks,
   Arabs, and whites.'

   The students also explained that the government's reactionary campaign
   against 'Islamism' in French schools served to repress them.

   Awa said, 'I saw a lot of people in dresses, they weren't Muslims. It's
   a fabric, it's a garment. It doesn't mean anything. It's silly, in many
   different cultures you see long dresses, whether it's in India, in
   Africa, or anywhere. So it's not because someone puts on a long dress
   that they're necessarily Muslim ... we aren’t trying to Islamize the
   high school.'

   She added, 'This is a secular high school. How, technically, could
   students Islamize a high school? It's not possible.”

   Awa and Noya added that on several occasions, high school girls whose
   dresses were considered too long or too loose had been forced to remove
   them. According to Sofiane, even baggy t-shirts were considered
   'religious signs' by the school administration and therefore banned.

   While interviewing students, WSWS reporters witnessed dozens of
   students leaving the school and putting back on headwear and
   loose-fitting dresses that were banned in class. This widely hated
   rule, which helped spark the protests at Joliot-Curie, is however the
   law in France.

   The students testified to the official brutality that prevails in
   France as the ruling elite is ever more terrified of rising social
   anger. Ava explained, 'In France, I say, it works like a dictatorship.
   Your superiors are all there and literally tell you what to do and you
   have no say. You have no right to speak and the only way to make
   yourself heard is by force, because that is how force is used. That's
   the only way to communicate.'

   For young people who oppose Macron's anti-Muslim policies, police
   violence, austerity against a backdrop of massive inflation, and the
   escalating war in Ukraine, the social force to mobilize is the working
   class, in France and internationally. It is only through a massive
   mobilization of the working class that we can organize society on a
   socialist basis and solve the burning problems facing young people.
   Sign up for the WSWS email newsletter

Read more

     * CGT bureaucracy works to strangle French refinery strike
       21 October 2022
     * Amid French refinery strike, Macron to impose 2023 budget without
       parliamentary vote
       19 October 2022
     * Mobilize the working class against the requisition of French
       refinery workers!
       17 October 2022

   Contact us
   Related Topics
   Find out more about these topics:
   Police violenceDemocratic rightsFranceEurope
   Loading
   © 1998-2023 World Socialist Web Site. All rights reserved.
   HomeAboutContactPrivacy StatementPrivacy Settings
