   #MLive.com

   Skip to Article

   (BUTTON) Set weather
   (BUTTON) Back To Main Menu (BUTTON) Close
   Customize Your Weather
   Set Your Location:
   Enter City and State or Zip Code
   ____________________ (BUTTON) Submit
   mlive’s Logo mlive’s Logo (BUTTON)
   Michigan
     * Ann Arbor
     * Flint
     * Grand Rapids/Muskegon
     * Jackson
     * Kalamazoo
     * Saginaw/Bay City
     * All Michigan

   (BUTTON) Subscribe
   News never stops. Neither do we. Support MLive.com

    1. Muskegon

Muskegon public safety director job offered to former gang specialist from
Chicago suburb

     * Published: Mar. 30, 2022, 5:09 p.m.

   Vincent Acevez

   Vincent Acevez has been offered the public safety director position in
   Muskegon.
   (BUTTON) facebook
   (BUTTON) twitter
   (BUTTON)
   NEW!
   (BUTTON)
   By
     * Lynn Moore | lmoore8@mlive.com

   MUSKEGON, MI -- A former gang crimes specialist from the Chicago
   suburbs has been offered the public safety director position in
   Muskegon.

   Vincent Acevez, who most recently was police chief of a community
   college, was the sole finalist for the position that oversees
   Muskegon’s police, fire and building inspections department.

   Muskegon City Manager Frank Peterson told MLive/Muskegon Chronicle he
   offered Acevez the position Wednesday afternoon, March 30.

   Peterson said while Acevez has impressive leadership experience, he was
   most impressed with his ability to connect with others while he was in
   town meeting with community stakeholders.

   “He has a great personality,” Peterson said. “It’s a refreshing
   personality. It’s not a suit coming in here, so to speak.”

   Assuming Acevez takes the job, he will replace Jeff Lewis, who is
   retiring as the city’s public safety director on April 30.

   When contacted by MLive Wednesday afternoon, Acevez said he had not yet
   seen the offer and would have to take time to consider it before
   deciding if he would accept it.

   “I have a family, and we have to make that decision together,” he said.

   The salary range for the public safety director position is $89,272 to
   $118,553, depending on relevant experience. Peterson said he expects
   the city will negotiate with Acevez on where he lands on that wage
   scale.

   From the Western Springs suburb of Chicago, Acevez spent 18 years with
   the gang crimes division of the police department at Cicero, Illinois.
   While there, he was credited for significant reduction in gang
   activity, which Acevez attributed to the police department making
   connections within the community.

   From 2000 through 2018, Acevez worked his way up from gang officer to
   sergeant and then commander of the 30-member Gang Crimes Tactical Unit.
   From 2019 to mid-2021, he was the deputy superintendent of the Cicero
   Police Department’s 130-member patrol division.

   Cicero has a population of about 85,300 people, 89% of whom are Latino,
   according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The town’s population is about 4%
   Black and 7% white. The median household income is about $54,000,
   according to the census.

   In comparison, Muskegon is significantly smaller, with about 38,300
   people, and is 50% white, 32% Black and 11% Latino. The median
   household income in Muskegon is $35,323.

   Related: ‘You probably won’t last:’ Muskegon’s public safety director
   proves naysayers wrong in 10-year run

   After leaving the Cicero Police Department, Acevez was an investigator
   with the Illinois Department of Transportation from May to August 2021.
   He was police chief at Morton College, a community college in Cicero,
   from August 2021 to January.

   In 2018, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation recognized Cicero as a
   “Culture of Health” award winner. It was, according to the foundation,
   an example of a community improving its health by tackling gang
   violence – a community-driven effort that started in 2008, according to
   the foundation.

   At that time, the foundation noted that gang-related homicides had
   dropped to one in 2017 from 14 in 2004.

   “I tell people it wasn’t us,” Acevez told the foundation for a 2018
   article. “It was the community becoming involved in our department.”

   Acevez was among 14 people who applied to become Muskegon’s next public
   safety director. He and Grand Haven Public Safety Director Jeff Hawke,
   who oversees police, fire and building code departments in that
   community, were named as the two finalists.

   However, Hawke earlier this week withdrew from consideration, citing
   “family reasons,” Peterson told MLive.

   Peterson said that while Acevez has not had direct supervision of fire
   or police departments, he has “a significant amount of experience”
   working with them in his previous positions.

   The job offer made to Acevez is one of the final decisions of Peterson,
   whose last day with the city is Thursday, March 31. Peterson has chosen
   to take a job in the private sector.

   Also on MLive:

   Fresh fish market, The Fish Monger’s Wife, to close permanently after
   12 years in Muskegon County

   Independent North Ottawa Community Hospital in talks to join large
   Trinity Health System

   Fight erupts outside courthouse among those attending hearing for man
   accused of killing 2-year-old

   If you purchase a product or register for an account through one of the
   links on our site, we may receive compensation.

Disclaimer

   Advance Local logo

   Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User
   Agreement, Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement, and Your California
   Privacy Rights (User Agreement updated 1/1/21. Privacy Policy and
   Cookie Statement updated 7/1/2022).

   Cookie Settings

   © 2023 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
   The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed,
   transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written
   permission of Advance Local.

   Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to
   this site.

   Ad Choices Ad Choices
