   #publisher alternate alternate

   (BUTTON)

   Discover Thomson Reuters
   Directory of sitesLoginContactSupport
   for-phone-onlyfor-tablet-portrait-upfor-tablet-landscape-upfor-desktop-
   upfor-wide-desktop-up
   France
   Updated

Armed French police sent into Dijon to quell ethnic gang violence

   By Reuters Staff

   2 Min Read
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   PARIS (Reuters) - Armed police were sent into a suburb of Dijon in
   eastern France to restore order after score-settling between rival
   gangs resulted in a fourth night of street violence.

   Trouble erupted on Friday when some 100 Chechen youths from across
   France descended on the Dijon suburb of Gresilles to avenge an attack
   on a Chechen teenager earlier in the week, police officials said.

   Gresilles is a low-income neighbourhood with a heavy North African
   immigrant population. A Dijon police source described the ethnic
   Chechens as heavily armed and said they had told local law enforcement
   they had come “to clean things up”.

   Deputy interior minister Laurent Nunez travelled to Dijon and said the
   violence must end. He denied police had been slow to intervene, praised
   their courage, and said reinforcements would remain in the city as long
   as needed.

   Regional radio station France Bleu quoted Dijon prosecutor Eric Mathias
   as saying he had opened an investigation into attempted murder by an
   organised group and incitement to violence.

   Mathias said Chechens had allegedly used social media to issue a
   France-wide call for retaliation against the Maghreb community in
   Gresilles.

   Videos, whose provenance Reuters could not immediately authenticate,
   circulated at the weekend showing dozens of hooded Chechen men, some
   wearing balaclavas and brandishing handguns or knives, out in the
   streets of the Dijon suburb.

   “We’re no longer in a (functioning) Republic when that is how things
   play out,” Dijon mayor Francois Rebsamen told BFM TV, denouncing a lack
   of police resources in provincial cities.

   Stephan Ragonneau, regional secretary of the national Alliance Police
   union, told Reuters the Chechens were “very mobile, very organised,
   armed (and) hooded”.

   “It would have been dangerous to intervene (earlier),” Ragonneau said.
   “If it had kicked off, there would have been shooting everywhere. There
   would certainly have been injuries, deaths.”

   Reporting by Sudip Kar-Gupta, Caroline Pailliez and Richard Lough;
   Editing by Himani Sarkar, John Stonestreet and Giles Elgood

   Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.

     * Apps
     * Newsletters
     * Advertise with Us
     * Advertising Guidelines
     * Cookies
     * Terms of Use
     * Privacy
     * Do Not Sell My Personal Information

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete
   list of exchanges and delays.
   © 0 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
   for-phone-onlyfor-tablet-portrait-upfor-tablet-landscape-upfor-desktop-
   upfor-wide-desktop-up
