   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PB2GX

   Skip to main content
   ABC News Homepage
   Search
   Loading
   (BUTTON) More from ABC

More from ABC

   (BUTTON) Close menuABC
     * ABC Home
     * News
     * Local & Radio
     * iview
     * Everyday
     * More

Editorial Policies

   Read our editorial guiding principles
     * Accessibility
     * Help
     * Contact Us
     * About the ABC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Use
     * © 2022 ABC

     *
     *
     *
     *

     * Just In
     * Watch Live
     * Coronavirus
     * Politics
     * World
     * Business
     * Analysis
     * Sport
     * Science
     * Health
     * Arts
     * Fact Check
     * Other

   News HomeABC News Homepage

   Constance Watcho's death is unspeakable, yet it isn't listed as a
   homicide
   (BUTTON) Share

News Ticker

Flood warning

   For the latest flood and weather warnings, search on ABC Emergency

Test scorecard

   Check the score for the third Test against South Africa at the SCG
   (BUTTON)
   1 / of 2
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   Get breaking news alerts directly to your phone with our app

Constance Watcho's death is unspeakable, yet it isn't listed as a homicide

   Four Corners
   /
   By Bridget Brennan, Stephanie Zillman, Suzanne Dredge and Brooke Fryer
   Posted Mon 24 Oct 2022 at 6:24amMonday 24 Oct 2022 at 6:24amMon 24 Oct
   2022 at 6:24am, updated Wed 2 Nov 2022 at 11:25pmWednesday 2 Nov 2022
   at 11:25pmWed 2 Nov 2022 at 11:25pm
   Michael, Rose and Orlyn stand, looking down at Constance Watcho's
   grave.
   Constance Watcho's children are no closer to getting answers five years
   after their mother's disappearance and death.(Four Corners:
   David Maguire)
   Share this article (BUTTON)
   abc.net.au/news/the-tragic-story-of-constance-watcho/101552092
   (BUTTON) Copy link (BUTTON) Share

   Tarita Fisher had a horrible, sinking feeling in the pit of her
   stomach.

   In the final months of 2017, her sister-in-law Constance Watcho had
   gone quiet.

   No-one had seen or heard from her in weeks — not her kids, her brothers
   or anyone in her large family network across Brisbane and central
   Queensland.

   Constance, or Connie as she was affectionately known, was a funny,
   strong-willed and loving mother-of-10, says Tarita.

   The 36-year-old had been living in Brisbane for the past few years and
   had had a difficult life, but her disappearance was completely out of
   character.

   "For her to be vanished — she just vanished — that's not Constance.
   It's not Constance," Tarita says.

   "I said to one of [her] brothers at the time, I said, 'Look, this is
   unusual. She needs to be listed as a missing person. This isn't
   normal.'"
   Constance Watcho smiling, looking at the camera
   Constance Watcho's disappearance was completely out of
   character.(Supplied)

   Her brothers and one of her teenage sons made the trip from their
   small, neighbouring communities of Cherbourg and Murgon down to
   Brisbane to search for her.

   "Just asking people on the street if they knew any stories, where she'd
   been, what happened. I just knew something wasn't right," says
   Constance's son Orlyn.

   It was clear from their own search efforts that she was nowhere to be
   found, and so the family reported her missing on February 8, 2018.

'Aboriginal women don't just go missing'

   Constance Watcho's son Orlyn and her sister-in-law Tarita stand under a
   tree in the cemetary
   Tarita Fisher, Constance's friend and sister-in-law, says when
   Aboriginal women go missing it means something is seriously wrong.(Four
   Corners: Suzanne Dredge)

   The Coroners Court would later hear that just two days after her family
   went to police, officers had assessed Constance's case as
   "medium-risk".

   The risk assessment for a missing person's report is crucial, according
   to research by the Australian Institute of Criminology, because it is
   the central mechanism by which police resources are then allocated.

The killings and disappearances that we don’t even count

   One group of Australian women are being murdered up to 12 times the
   national average. Why isn't it being treated as a crisis?
   Roberta Curry, Ms R Rubuntja and Constance Watcho.
   Read more

   "She wasn't medium-risk. That's their terminology. When an Aboriginal
   woman goes missing in our communities, it's high-risk," Tarita says.

   "When someone goes missing, there's something seriously wrong … because
   Aboriginal women don't just go missing. They don't just disappear or go
   into hiding."

   Tarita often reflects on why Constance's case has received little
   national attention.

   "It's a Black woman gone missing, disappeared off the face of the Earth
   and no one could locate her. The only people that cared was her
   family."

An unspeakable crime in plain sight

   View of Brisbane river and the city skyline in spring
   Constance Watcho's body was discovered near a busy walking track in the
   Brisbane suburb of Kangaroo Point.(ABC News: Alice Pavlovic)

   On a bright, beautiful morning, as ferries whizzed by on the Brisbane
   River, police officers waded through overgrown weeds and grass to
   reveal an unspeakable crime.

   In the wealthy inner-city suburb of Kangaroo Point, near a busy walking
   track at the base of a cliff, Constance's body was discovered in a
   sports bag, hidden in plain sight.

   It's September 10, 2018, and by now she had been missing for almost 10
   months.

Do you know more?

   Contact Suzanne Dredge via dredge.suzanne@abc.net.au

   It was evident to police that Constance's body had been completely
   dehumanised: dismembered, disarticulated at the joints and partially
   stuffed into a bag.

   Some of her bones were strewn about the grass. Her bra was still intact
   around her torso and shoulder bones.

   It would later be revealed at a coronial inquest that the man who
   discovered her body and reported it to police was one of the last
   people to have seen Constance alive.

'We think it's your Mum'

   Michael, Orlyn and Rose stand under a tree with a cemetery in the
   background.
   Constance's children, Michael, Orlyn and Rose believe police could have
   done more to investigate their mother's disappearance.(Four Corners:
   Suzanne Dredge)

   Orlyn says he found out about his mum's death from police, moments
   before they held a press conference.

   "They just told me what they found and just [said] 'We think it's your
   mum,' and [they] just said it's going to be on the news in 30 seconds.
   I hung up the phone," he says.

   "I cried and went quiet for months."

   Tarita broke the news to two of Constance's other children, Rose and
   Michael, who were still in high school at the time.

   Satellite imagery revealed that Constance's body had lain in the same
   spot for at least six months — in the same suburb where she was last
   seen alive.

   It's a startling revelation: all this time her body had been barely
   concealed just 200 metres from where Constance had been staying.

   Police would later tell an inquest: "If the remains were located
   sooner, this would have assisted us greatly in so far as establishing a
   cause of death."
   Orlyn standing in park, staring into the distance
   Orlyn had searched the streets of Brisbane for his mother. (Four
   Corners: Suzanne Dredge)

   The discovery of her mother's body was shattering for Constance's
   daughter Rose, who began questioning whether a thorough search of the
   area had ever been carried out by police.

   "My mother was found 200 metres from the last place she was seen, in a
   place where a lot of people walk by. That part of the investigation I
   feel wasn't conducted properly," she says.

   "I do see a lot of things on the news — white women going missing [and]
   getting found, a proper investigation into what happened. It's not like
   that with my mother."

   During the inquest, the Queensland Police Force says it invested
   significant resources into the investigation into Constance's
   disappearance and death, which included checking interstate police
   databases and accessing bank records.
   Rose, Constance Watcho's daughter
   Constance's daughter Rose questions why her mother's body lay
   undiscovered for so long just 200 metres from where she was last
   seen.(Four Corners: David Maguire)

Police had 'no working theories' on what happened

   Police told a coronial inquest last month they had "no working
   theories" about what happened to her.

   The inquest heard that a man had approached police near his home to
   tell them he had found the bag at the cliffs.

   Media reports at the time referred to the man as a "member of the
   public".

   In fact, Constance had been living with him, along with her boyfriend
   Przemyslaw "Sam" Sobczak, and a third man, Dallas Bandman.

   Queensland Police told the inquest that the three men were persons of
   interest in the case and that "versions provided by all those three
   [men] are conflicting with each other, and also with previous versions
   given by them."
   Forensic officer at the Kangaroo Point apartment which had been
   declared a crime scene.
   A forensics officer searches the Kangaroo Point unit where Constance
   Watcho had been staying.(ABC News: Kristian Silva)

Constance seen arguing with boyfriend, coroner hears

   Dallas Bandman told the Coroners Court that he last saw Constance
   arguing with her boyfriend, Mr Sobczak, near the Kangaroo Point flats
   where they all lived, on November 27, 2017.

   Mr Bandman was read a portion of his statement to police about what
   happened next.

   "I remember thinking enough is enough, and I went outside and told them
   to piss off. They didn't say anything, they just walked off," he was
   quoted as saying.

   However, Mr Bandman told the inquest that after he had asked them to
   leave, he had actually gone back inside the flat and bundled up sheets
   and pillows and stuffed them into a bag, before giving it to Constance
   and Mr Sobczak.

   When shown a photograph of the bag that had contained Constance's
   remains, he said it had belonged to him and that it was the same bag he
   had given the pair the night he kicked them out.

   He was asked why he hadn't told police this important detail in his
   statement.

   "I just want to clarify that not everything I said to police is in the
   statement," Mr Bandman said.

   Mr Bandman then told the inquest that Mr Sobczak had returned to the
   flat the next day.

   "He [Mr Sobczak] had two black eyes. Swollen black eyes. Maybe a scruff
   mark on his face, on his chest maybe. Looked like he'd been in a
   fight."
   A man wearing a long sleeve shirt and pants walks outside a court
   building
   Sam Sobczak told a coronial inquest he doesn't know what happened to
   Constance Watcho.   (Four Corners: Stephanie Zillman)

   When Mr Bandman asked where Constance was, he says Mr Sobczak replied,
   "f*** off".

   Mr Bandman strongly denied any involvement in the disappearance and
   death of Constance.

   "She was a friend of mine and I didn't hurt her," he said.

   At the inquest, Mr Sobczak answered "I don't know" and "I don't
   remember" to dozens of questions, and replied "No" when asked if he had
   anything to do with her death.

   Mr Sobczak will return to give evidence when the inquest resumes.

'Show her children what happened to her'

   A woman in a tracksuit and joggers sits on the ground.
   Constance Watcho was a funny, loving mother-of-10. (Supplied by family)

   Darumbal and South Sea Islander journalist and academic Amy McQuire has
   been closely following the inquest.

   "Her family felt that there was an urgency to find her," she says.

   "The fact that Constance was found so close to where she was last seen
   — that's something that has never been properly answered.

   "There was just this total apathy."

   The coroner heard Constance's case is deemed a "suspicious death"
   because police have said a cause of death cannot be determined.

   "Show her children the outcomes. Show her children the truths of what
   happened to her. There's got to be some answer to this," Tarita says.

   Her loved ones have multiple unanswered questions over whether
   Queensland Police have conducted a meaningful investigation.

   "For someone else, it would have been quick to solve. It's been years
   now and they still haven't done anything," says Constance's son
   Michael.
   A man leans on a wooden crucifix with cliffs in the background
   Constance Watcho's family and friends held an emotional smoking
   ceremony at Kangaroo Point, near where her body was found.(Supplied:
   Charandev Singh)

   Four Corners sent a detailed list of questions to the Queensland Police
   Force regarding the investigation into Ms Watcho's death.

   A spokesperson says the force is committed to "enhancing its
   capability" to protect victims of violence but that it would be
   inappropriate to comment further while Ms Watcho's inquest is ongoing.

A silent crisis

   Amy McQuire says there is a pattern of ongoing violence towards
   Indigenous women stretching back decades.

   "Aboriginal women are largely [seen as] just passive and bodies for
   which acts of violence are done to," she tells Four Corners.

   "And I think that's a real reason why this crisis has been silenced for
   so long … media and society haven't been listening."

Family and domestic violence support services:

     * If you need help immediately call emergency services on 000
     * 13YARN: 13 92 76, to speak with an Aboriginal or Torres Strait
       Islander Crisis Supporter
     * 1800 Respect National Helpline: 1800 737 732
     * Women's Crisis Line: 1800 811 811
     * Men's Referral Service: 1300 766 491
     * Mensline: 1300 789 978
     * Lifeline: 131 114

   No-one knows how many First Nations women have disappeared over the
   decades, but Four Corners has established at least 49 missing cases
   across Australia since 1941.

   Many of these women's families have spent several years pushing for
   better search efforts, more rigorous investigations, and increased
   media attention to unsolved cases of missing Aboriginal women.
   Constance Watcho's children hold up photos of their mother
   Constance's children Michael, Rose and Orlyn attended five days of the
   inquest into her death.(Supplied: Charandev Singh)

   It's taken more than four years for Ms Watcho's case to go before the
   Queensland coroners court.

   Last month, Constance's family made the difficult decision to sit
   through five days of hearings.

   They also held a moving and emotional ceremony for her at the base of
   the cliff where her body was found.
   smoking ceremony
   Family members at the smoking ceremony for Constance Watcho in Kangaroo
   Point.(Four Corners: Stephanie Zillman)

   Constance's eldest children are growing up in Murgon, not far from
   where she was raised in Cherbourg.

   Their Mum is now buried at the Cherbourg cemetery where her grave is
   adorned with purple flowers — her favourite colour.

   "I just miss her and love her," Michael says.

   "I'll never give up on her and I know that she's with me everywhere I
   go."
   Michael, Rose and Orlyn at the graveside of their mother, Constance
   Watcho.
   Constance's children Michael and Rose (left) were still in high school
   when they were told of their mother's death.(Four Corners:
   David Maguire)

   Watch the full Four Corners investigation on ABC iview.

   EDITOR'S NOTE: November 1, 2022: An earlier version of this story
   included a name which has been removed for legal reasons.
   Posted 24 Oct 202224 Oct 2022Mon 24 Oct 2022 at 6:24am, updated 2 Nov
   20222 Nov 2022Wed 2 Nov 2022 at 11:25pm
   Share
     * Copy link
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * (BUTTON)

Related Stories

     *

'There's just silence': She fought to stop violence against women. Why didn't
her murder start a movement?
       Profile shot of Ms R Rubuntja

   More on:
     * Domestic Violence
     * Homicide
     * Indigenous (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander)
     * Kangaroo Point
     * Women

Domestic violence update

   So far today police in Australia would have dealt with on average
   -
   domestic violence matters.
   Learn more about these numbers

Family and domestic violence support:

     * 1800 Respect national helpline:
       1800 737 732
     * Women's Crisis Line:
       1800 811 811
     * Men's Referral Service:
       1300 766 491
     * Lifeline (24 hour crisis line):
       131 114
     * Relationships Australia:
       1300 364 277
     * NSW Domestic Violence Line:
       1800 656 463
     * Qld DV Connect Womensline:
       1800 811 811
     * Vic Safe Steps crisis response line:
       1800 015 188
     * ACT 24/7 Crisis Line:
       (02) 6280 0900
     * Tas Family Violence Counselling and Support Service:
       1800 608 122
     * SA Domestic Violence Crisis Line:
       1800 800 098
     * WA Women's Domestic Violence 24h Helpline:
       1800 007 339
     * NT Domestic violence helpline:
       1800 737 732

Domestic violence

     *

Terrifying last moments: A decade of domestic violence deaths in Hindu and
Sikh communities
       An illustration shows a woman, wearing a sari, with a black eye and
       crying.
     *

'Their cross to bear': The Catholic women told to forgive domestic violence
       An illustration of two hands covered in bandaids and clasped in
       prayer, holding a rosary
     *

Raped, tracked, humiliated: Clergy wives speak about domestic violence
       An illustration shows a woman, wearing a crown of thorns, standing
       in front of a priest.
     *

These women all died in 2015: 'they are not just statistics'
     *

ABC Open: People tell their domestic violence stories
       Tasmanian police officer comforts a woman in her home
     *

#ChurchToo: Christian victims of abuse join social media outpouring
       A woman prays over a bible.

Top Stories

     *

'People are traumatised': The Australians fearing their 'worst ever' flood
clean-up
     *

Drag racer Sam Fenech dies, camera operator hospitalised after crash at
raceway west of Brisbane
     *

After 14 unsuccessful rounds of voting, Kevin McCarthy finally elected
Republican US House speaker
     *

Woman, 24, charged with murder after Biggenden shed fire that killed father
and daughter
     *

Sensational Pat Cummins spell puts Aussies in box seat for clean sweep of
South Africa
     *

A catastrophe is unfolding in Britain's health system. UK doctors say it
could happen in Australia next
     *

Albanese says US relationship with Australia remains strong despite concerns
raised over AUKUS deal
     *

Melbourne was built on a swamp and city planners took drastic steps to stop
it flooding every few years
     *

Amid wild scenes in the Republican Party, Trump's waning influence was on
full display
     *

This couple gave up renting to live with waterfront views for $100 a week
     *

Man dies, teen critical after two separate incidents on Adelaide roads
     *

Male driver arrested after two women hit by car in Palmerston in alleged
domestic violence attack
     *

President Joe Biden lauds 'heroes' of January 6 attacks on second anniversary
of riot
     *

Australia is doing business with 'some of the worst human rights abusers on
the planet' in weapons exports
     *

Relief as much-needed supplies finally reach Kimberley town isolated by
floodwater

Popular Now

   1.

Drag racer Sam Fenech dies, camera operator hospitalised after crash at
raceway west of Brisbane

   A 50's man in racing garb smiles and points two fingers in front of a
   car in garage
   2.

Woman, 24, charged with murder after Biggenden shed fire that killed father
and daughter

   A woman standing near a beach.
   3.

After 14 unsuccessful rounds of voting, Kevin McCarthy finally elected
Republican US House speaker

   Close up of Kevin McCarthy surrounded by media as he walks into the
   Capitol.
   4.

A catastrophe is unfolding in Britain's health system. UK doctors say it
could happen in Australia next

   A hospital corridor with a row of gurneys along the side
   5.

Sensational Pat Cummins spell puts Aussies in box seat for clean sweep of
South Africa

   Pat Cummins holds both hands up and points up while screaming
   6.

This couple gave up renting to live with waterfront views for $100 a week

   A young couple standing on their boat docked in water.

Top Stories

'People are traumatised': The Australians fearing their 'worst ever' flood
clean-up

   An Indigenous woman sitting at a park bench looking at the camera.

Drag racer Sam Fenech dies, camera operator hospitalised after crash at
raceway west of Brisbane

   A 50's man in racing garb smiles and points two fingers in front of a
   car in garage

After 14 unsuccessful rounds of voting, Kevin McCarthy finally elected
Republican US House speaker

   Close up of Kevin McCarthy surrounded by media as he walks into the
   Capitol.

Woman, 24, charged with murder after Biggenden shed fire that killed father
and daughter

   A woman standing near a beach.

Sensational Pat Cummins spell puts Aussies in box seat for clean sweep of
South Africa

   Pat Cummins holds both hands up and points up while screaming

A catastrophe is unfolding in Britain's health system. UK doctors say it
could happen in Australia next

   A hospital corridor with a row of gurneys along the side

Albanese says US relationship with Australia remains strong despite concerns
raised over AUKUS deal

   Mr Albanese stands wearing a suit and is speaking with Mr Marles in the
   background.

Melbourne was built on a swamp and city planners took drastic steps to stop
it flooding every few years

   A painting of a flood.

Amid wild scenes in the Republican Party, Trump's waning influence was on
full display

   Kevin McCarthy closes his eyes and wraps his arms around himself

Just In

     *

World number two Jabeur falls to teenage qualifier in Adelaide International
semis
       1h ago1 hours agoSat 7 Jan 2023 at 10:52am
     *

Drag racer Sam Fenech dies, camera operator hospitalised after crash at
raceway west of Brisbane
       1h ago1 hours agoSat 7 Jan 2023 at 10:41am
     *

Sensational Pat Cummins spell puts Aussies in box seat for clean sweep of
South Africa
       4h ago4 hours agoSat 7 Jan 2023 at 7:33am
     *

Lanning in 'exceptional' form ahead of international return against Pakistan
       4h ago4 hours agoSat 7 Jan 2023 at 7:15am
     *

Woman, 24, charged with murder after Biggenden shed fire that killed father
and daughter
       5h ago5 hours agoSat 7 Jan 2023 at 7:09am
     *

Relief as much-needed supplies finally reach Kimberley town isolated by
floodwater
       5h ago5 hours agoSat 7 Jan 2023 at 6:43am

   More Just In

   Back to top

Footer

   ABC News homepage
   More From ABC NEWS

   We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the
   First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we
   live, learn, and work.

Sections

     * ABC NEWS
     * Just In
     * Watch Live
     * Coronavirus
     * Politics
     * World
     * Business
     * Analysis
     * Sport
     * Science
     * Health
     * Arts
     * Fact Check
     * Other

News in language

     * 中文
     * Berita Bahasa Indonesia
     * Tok Pisin

Connect with ABC News

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Instagram
     * YouTube
     * Apple News

More from ABC News

     * Contact ABC NEWS

   This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP),
   APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright
   and cannot be reproduced.

   AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT
   (Greenwich Mean Time)
     * Editorial Policies
     * Accessibility
     * Help
     * Contact Us
     * About the ABC
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Use
     * © 2022 ABC

     *
     *
     *
     *
