   Skip to main content

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P5L2Z5Z

     * Investigations
     * Newsletters
     * Events
     * Audio
     * Data

     * Donate
     * (BUTTON)

     * (BUTTON)  Menu
     * (BUTTON)  Close

   (BUTTON) ____________________ (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON) ____________________
     * Donate
     * Investigations
     * Newsletters
     * Events
     * Audio
     * Data

Key coverage

     * Secretary of State
     * Methodist Split
     * School Bonds
     * 2023 Legislative Session
     * Trans Texans

A neighborhood’s new anti-Section 8 rules will push many Black residents out
of a North Texas suburb

   Landlords in Texas don’t have to accept renters who receive federal
   housing assistance, but a Denton County community is taking it a big
   step further: making most of the town off limits to Section 8 tenants.

   by Joshua Fechter July 21, 20225 AM Central

   (BUTTON) Copy link
   Republish

   Evora Sykes, left, and Evettet Townsend arrange Evora’s belongings on
   the front porch of her home in Providence Village on June 30, 2022.
   Evora Sykes, left, and Evette Townsend arrange Sykes' belongings on the
   front porch of her home in Providence Village on June 30. Sykes and her
   children moved into Providence Village four years ago. Now a new rule
   by the homeowners association is forcing them, and other tenants who
   use Section 8 housing vouchers, to move. Credit: Emil Lippe for The
   Texas Tribune

   Sign up for The Brief, our daily newsletter that keeps readers up to
   speed on the most essential Texas news.

   PROVIDENCE VILLAGE — By the time Revisha Threats moved into a two-story
   home in this North Texas hamlet last year, she had filled out more than
   100 applications to find a home for her and her four children.

   Threats, 31, said she wanted a home “somewhere good and humble for my
   kids” as she tried to escape an abusive relationship in Atlanta. She
   considered joining her sister in California but worried she couldn’t
   afford that state’s high rents, even with help through the federal
   housing choice voucher program, widely referred to as Section 8, that
   subsidizes a portion of a low-income household’s rent.

   Then Threats’ sister turned her attention to the suburbs north of
   Dallas and Fort Worth. The rent was affordable, and according to her
   sister’s research, crime was low. Threats said she applied to live in
   more than 100 houses and apartments, but none would accept her. Texas
   is one of the few states that allows landlords to reject renters if
   they receive housing vouchers.

   Finally, Threats found a landlord in Providence Village, a town of
   about 7,700 people less than an hour’s drive north of Dallas, who
   accepted vouchers — and she and her kids left Atlanta with four
   suitcases, bound for Texas.

   Threats said she fell in love with Providence Village. She started a
   business cleaning neighbors’ homes. Her kids were happy. Her daughter
   had been withdrawn since her father died in 2015, and retreated even
   further from friends during the pandemic. But in Providence Village,
   she “opened up,” Threats said.

   “I was at peace, I was happy,” Threats said. “The neighbors, they
   treated us like family.”

   But after less than a year, Threats and her family must once more pack
   their bags and move elsewhere.

   In the months after Threats moved in, homeowners began to turn against
   the neighborhood’s Section 8 renters — who are predominantly Black. In
   private Facebook groups, they increasingly blamed tenants for a
   perceived uptick in criminal activity in Providence Village.

   The wave of anti-Section 8 sentiment peaked in June, when the
   Providence Homeowners Association’s board passed a rule effectively
   banning Section 8 renters from living in the neighborhood — a move that
   will displace more than 150 families from the majority-white enclave.

   Black families make up 93% of the 157 households with Section 8
   vouchers living in Providence Village, according to the Dallas and
   Denton housing authorities. Women head all but five of those
   households.

   Section 8 tenants have to leave Providence when their current leases
   end, according to the new rule. The homeowners association and the town
   are legally separate entities but share much of the same territory.
   That means within a year, an entire Texas town will mostly be off
   limits to voucher holders.

   Low-income housing advocates have blasted the ban as racial
   discrimination. Soon after the rule was on the books, a trio of
   advocacy groups — Texas Housers, Texas Homeless Network and United Way
   of Denton County — called on the U.S. Department of Justice to
   investigate whether the rule violated the federal Fair Housing Act.

   “This basically says that ‘there’ll be no Section 8 in our city,’” said
   Ann Lott, executive director of the Dallas-based Inclusive Communities
   Project. “So for years, we’ve had to deal with the homeowners saying
   ‘not in my neighborhood.’ But now we have a move afoot that says ‘not
   even in our city.’ That’s concerning.”

   There’s nothing in state or federal law that forbids homeowners
   associations from enacting such bans, legal experts say, although it’s
   unusual for HOAs to enact them. The Texas Tribune identified two other
   Dallas-Fort Worth-area homeowners associations that ban voucher
   holders.

   “I’ve literally read through thousands” of homeowners associations’
   rules, said Gregory Cagle, a lawyer who deals with HOA law. “It’s not
   common.”

   Providence HOA leaders have not publicly explained their rationale for
   the Section 8 ban, according to tenants, landlords and others who spoke
   with the Tribune. Officials with the HOA, including board President
   Jennifer Dautrich, and Providence Village Mayor Linda Inman did not
   return requests for comment.

   Families now are scrambling to find new places to live — and to do so
   before school starts. As Threats discovered, such housing can be
   difficult to find in Texas, where a 2015 state law essentially allows
   landlords to ban Section 8 recipients.

   A 2017 report by Inclusive Communities Project found that out of 1,900
   properties surveyed in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, only 226 accepted
   vouchers — predominantly in areas that are poor and Black. No apartment
   complex in 26 Dallas suburbs — nearly all majority-white — surveyed by
   the organization accepted vouchers, the survey found.

   “The lack of 150 homes available for voucher tenants is a very severe
   effect,” said Laura Beshara, a civil rights lawyer representing some of
   the Providence Village tenants. “The families are going to have a very
   hard time finding housing.”

   Advocates and tenants, however, worry that other homeowners
   associations will copy the Providence HOA and enact their own bans on
   renting to voucher holders.
   Clouds roll through the sky over the Providence Creek Village
   neighborhood in Providence Village, Texas on Thursday, June 30, 2022.
   Clouds roll through the sky over the Providence Creek Village
   neighborhood in Providence Village, Texas on Thursday, June 30, 2022.
   A street in Providence Village. The neighborhood was constructed
   beginning in 2000 and incorporated as a municipality in 2010. It now
   has about 7,700 residents. Credit: Emil Lippe for The Texas Tribune

“Your neighborhood’s too perfect”

   Huffines Communities — the Dallas real estate firm founded by Don
   Huffines, the former Republican state senator who unsuccessfully
   challenged Gov. Greg Abbott in this year’s GOP gubernatorial primary,
   and his brother Phillip — first began developing the neighborhood in
   2000.

   Providence “reflects the Huffines’ dedication to providing a lifestyle
   that embraces family traditions in their home and creates lasting
   memories,” the company’s website says.

   More than 5,000 people lived in the subdivision by 2010, according to
   the Denton Record-Chronicle. That year, residents voted to incorporate
   Providence Village as its own municipality.

   The neighborhood feels like a beachside resort, with large,
   white-trimmed houses and manicured lawns lining narrow, winding
   streets. The neighborhood is dotted with artificial lakes and features
   a water slide, pools and jogging trails.

   Nearly three-fourths of its residents are white, 17% are Hispanic and
   7% are Black.

   “Even when I have friends come over, they’re like, ‘Your neighborhood’s
   too perfect, you might need to just be careful,’” Threats said. “I
   never saw it coming, how ugly it was behind closed doors.”

   To Evette Townsend, the town has always been unwelcoming. She and her
   six children, who moved to Texas from Milwaukee in 2018, lived in
   nearby Paloma Creek until last year, when their landlord sold the
   house. Townsend wanted to stay in the same school district and managed
   to find a home in Providence Village.

   About a month after her family moved into their new home in December,
   Townsend’s 17-year-old son and two friends visiting from Frisco drove
   to 7-Eleven to pick up snacks for a movie night.

   Less than 10 minutes later, Townsend saw flashing police lights through
   the window. She ran outside to find a police officer with the Aubrey
   Police Department, which patrols Providence Village, pointing a stun
   gun at her son’s friends. The officer told Townsend that her son and
   his friends ran a stop sign and were driving recklessly through the
   neighborhood. Another told her they were speeding at 45 mph through an
   alley. At least six officers showed up to the scene.

   After that, police officers would “pop up” at her house for no apparent
   reason, Townsend said. Officers pulled her son over several times while
   he drove her black Chrysler 300 around town, she said. Townsend said an
   officer pulled her over once in the neighborhood for speeding in a
   school zone — and told her that her Chrysler was a “high-profile car.”
   As soon as school let out, Townsend’s son left for Milwaukee for the
   summer.

   “It looks like a nice neighborhood to live in,” Townsend said. “But we
   never got the welcome or never got a chance to experience any of that.”

“Only so many should be allowed”

   Providence Village residents and landlords — as well as lawyers and
   housing advocates who have become involved — trace the rising
   anti-Section 8 sentiment over the last year to last summer, when a
   14-year-old Black teenager stabbed a 16-year-old white teenager at a
   neighborhood basketball court.

   Word spread through the neighborhood that the teenager who was arrested
   was from a Section 8 household.

   Since then, according to renters who spoke to the Tribune, it’s become
   common for Section 8 tenants to be blamed online for anything that goes
   wrong in the neighborhood.

   In the wake of the basketball court stabbing, people in private
   Facebook groups geared toward Providence Village began to try to figure
   out how many Section 8 tenants lived in the HOA. At some point, a map
   of houses rented to Section 8 tenants circulated around the
   neighborhood.

   Eventually, residents in the groups began to discuss ways to get rid of
   Section 8 renters altogether — although HOA leaders at first seemed to
   reject the notion.

   Dautrich, now the HOA’s board president, wrote in one Facebook comment
   thread in October that she believed Section 8 “is a good resource but
   should have a timeline and only so many should be allowed in any
   neighborhood,” according to screenshots in videos posted on Threats’
   TikTok account. Still, lawyers told HOA board members “there is nothing
   we can do” about landlords renting to Section 8 tenants in the
   neighborhood, Dautrich wrote.

   By June, that thinking had changed. The HOA board first passed a rule
   to fine landlords $300 a week if they rent to Section 8 voucher holders
   — a move that drew applause at a June 6 public meeting.

   Landlords with several properties in Providence Village fretted about
   how they would bear the brunt of an additional $1,200 a month per
   tenant.

   After an outcry from tenants and housing advocates, as well as local
   media attention — including multiple stories by the Denton
   Record-Chronicle — the association changed direction and delayed
   enforcement of the new rule. Tenants who signed a 12-month lease before
   the rule went into effect can stay on through the end of the lease.
   Those on a month-to-month lease can stay until mid-September. After
   that, landlords must pay the fine if they rent to Section 8 tenants.

   Because the Section 8 ban overwhelmingly affects Black residents, it
   likely violates the federal Fair Housing Act, which explicitly
   prohibits discrimination based on race, said Beshara and Mike Daniel,
   the lawyers representing Providence Village tenants.

   “That’s pretty functionally equivalent to being able to say, ‘You’re
   Black, get out,’” Daniel said of the ban.

“We want what’s best for our families”

   The Section 8 ban is part of a broader package of rules passed by the
   HOA board aimed at discouraging real estate investors from buying homes
   in the neighborhood and turning them into rentals.

   Amid the COVID-19 pandemic and historically low interest rates,
   investors and corporations — often referred to as “institutional
   buyers” — began buying more homes with the intent of renting them out
   or flipping them.

   Last year, Texas was the top target in the nation for investors. Home
   purchases made by investors accounted for 28% of all home purchases in
   the state in 2021, according to the National Association of Realtors —
   a higher percentage than in any other state. In Denton County, where
   Providence Village is, that figure was 39%.

   Under the new rules, a new homeowner must live in their home for two
   years before they can rent it to a tenant — and a lease has to last
   longer than 90 days. A landlord can own only one rental home at a time.

   Jenny Hersey, a mortgage underwriter who moved to Providence Village in
   2008, supported the rules package out of worry that investor activity
   would make the neighborhood unaffordable, she said.

   Hersey said she empathizes with voucher holders who will have to find a
   new place to live but noted that the HOA is letting tenants stay
   through the end of their leases — and that housing authorities are
   helping tenants relocate.

   “I don’t want to say I’m in support of the Section 8 ban — I’m in
   support of the overall rental restrictions and the fact that our
   neighborhood needed those and something needed to be implemented,” she
   said, adding that the homeowners elected HOA officers to do what’s best
   for the community.

   “They’ve got families here as well. So we’re all in this together as we
   want what’s best for our neighborhood, we want what’s best for our
   families,” she said.

   Two other homeowners associations developed by Huffines Communities
   have enacted similar bans — Savannah HOA, also in Denton County, and
   Heartland Community Association in Kaufman County, about half an hour
   east of Dallas.

   While in the state Senate, Don Huffines made it easier for landlords
   not to rent to voucher holders. In 2015, he backed a bill that
   prohibited cities and counties from forbidding landlords from refusing
   to tenants who receive Section 8 assistance — a pushback to attempts by
   local officials in Austin and Dallas to do so. Abbott signed the bill
   into law.

   Don Huffines directed a Tribune reporter’s request for comment to a
   spokesperson. His brother Phillip, co-owner and co-founder of Huffines
   Communities, said the company sold the last lots at Providence a decade
   ago and is no longer involved in the development. The decision to ban
   Section 8 tenants is up to each homeowners association, he said.

   “They decide, that’s up to them,” Phillip Huffines said. “That has
   nothing to do with us.”
   Evora Sykes peers out of a window at her home in Providence Village on
   June 30, 2022. Evora Sykes peers out of a window at her home in
   Providence Village on June 30, 2022.
   Evora Sykes at her home in Providence Village on June 30. Credit: Emil
   Lippe for The Texas Tribune

“They want their neighborhood back”

   Many tenants aren’t sticking around as they try to get into new homes
   by the beginning of the school year. One landlord who asked not to be
   identified because they still own several properties in the
   neighborhood and fear harassment said some of their tenants have
   already relocated.

   Threats said she thought she would stay in the neighborhood longer —
   but she said the situation has taken a toll on her mental health. Her
   cleaning business fell apart after one client falsely alleged on social
   media that Threats had charged her twice for one cleaning, Threats
   said. The woman later apologized, she said, but the damage was done.

   At one point, neighbors found a news article detailing Threats’ 2019
   arrest on charges of credit card fraud in Alabama — featuring her
   mugshot — and shared it in one of the neighborhood Facebook groups.

   In late June, she started buying moving boxes and looking for a new
   home. Her landlord had one available in Dallas, where she plans to
   rebuild the cleaning business.

   “I know that I’m supposed to be excited and happy,” Threats said. “I
   am, but a part of me is still heartbroken.”

   Evora Sykes moved to Texas from Arkansas with her two children four
   years ago seeking opportunity, landing in Providence Village in 2018.
   She worked as a shuttle driver at Dallas-Fort Worth International
   Airport until September, when she caught COVID-19.

   Sykes planned to move next year, but the ban changed her plans. On a
   day in late June, boxes and bags full of belongings lined the hallway
   of her two-story home. On the front porch, Sykes had put out pillows,
   plates, towels and other household items for sale.

   Days after the ban took effect, Sykes hosted a cookout with Townsend
   and Threats at her house, hoping to blow off some steam.

   It didn’t take long for tensions to flare again. Sykes’ neighbor — who
   had recently trolled Sykes and Threats in a Facebook post — began
   taking photos of the cars parked outside her home. When Threats
   confronted the neighbor, a shouting match erupted — prompting the
   police to show up and ticket both Threats and the neighbor.

   Sitting in Sykes’ garage — out of view from hostile neighbors — Sykes
   and Townsend shared their plans. Townsend is moving closer to Fort
   Worth. Sykes is moving elsewhere in the D-FW area but won’t say where,
   fearing that harassment will follow her.

   “They claim they want their neighborhood back,” Sykes said. “That’s
   what some of us are doing. We’re in the process of giving them their
   neighborhood back.”
     __________________________________________________________________

   When you join us at The Texas Tribune Festival Sept. 22-24 in downtown
   Austin, you’ll hear from changemakers who are driving innovation,
   lawmakers who are taking charge with new policies, industry leaders who
   are pushing Texas forward and so many others. See the growing speaker
   list and buy tickets.

Quality journalism doesn't come free

   Perhaps it goes without saying — but producing quality journalism isn't
   cheap. At a time when newsroom resources and revenue across the country
   are declining, The Texas Tribune remains committed to sustaining our
   mission: creating a more engaged and informed Texas with every story we
   cover, every event we convene and every newsletter we send. As a
   nonprofit newsroom, we rely on members to help keep our stories free
   and our events open to the public. Do you value our journalism? Show us
   with your support.
   Yes, I'll donate today

Latest Texas Tribune events and articles

Upcoming events

   Loading content …

Latest from our reporters

   Loading content …

     * Donate
     * View your giving history
     * Contact us
     * Advertise
     * Send us a confidential tip
     * © 2022 The Texas Tribune

Topics

     * Congress
     * Courts
     * Criminal justice
     * Demographics
     * Economy
     * Energy
     * Environment
     * Health care
     * Higher education
     * Immigration
     * Politics
     * Public education
     * State government
     * Transportation
     * View all

Company Info

     * About Us
     * Our Staff
     * Jobs
     * Who Funds Us?
     * Strategic Plan
     * Republishing Guidelines
     * Code of Ethics
     * Terms of Service
     * Privacy Policy
     * RevLab
     * Corrections
     * Feeds
     * Newsletters
     * Audio
     * Video

Social Media

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * YouTube
     * Instagram
     * LinkedIn
     * Reddit
     *
     * Join our Facebook Group, This Is Your Texas.
