     * Donate
     * About Us
          + About Us
          + Contact Us
          + Change My Address
          + Letters to the editor
          + Suggest a story
          + Advertise with us
          + Subscribe to Print
     * Subscribe to Print

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * email
     * Print

   What you need to know about Highland Park, the Chicago suburb rattled
   by July 4 shooting
   [PJC_Logo_Header.svg]

   search

     * Home
     * News
          + All
          + Local
          + National
          + World
     * Features
     * Opinion
     * Blogs
     * Life Cycle
          + All Celebrations
          + Births
          + B’nai Mitzvah
          + Weddings & Engagements
          + Other Celebrations
          + Obituaries
          + Submit a life cycle event
     * Calendar
          + Events
          + Submit an Event
     * Community
          + Community
          + Submit a photo
     * Newsletter
     * The Times of Israel
          + Atlanta
            Atlanta Jewish Times
          + North New Jersey
            The Jewish Standard
          + Pittsburgh
            Jewish Chronicle
          + United Kingdom
            The Jewish News
          + Australia
            The Australian Jewish News
          + For Publishers
            Become a Times of Israel Partner
     * search

   ____________________
   search

   home page
   Mass shootingAn 'idyllic suburban Jewish capital'

What you need to know about Highland Park, the Chicago suburb rattled by July
4 shooting

According to a 2020 study of the metropolitan Chicago area by researchers at
Brandeis University and the University of Chicago, Highland Park is 50%
Jewish.

   By Gabe Friedman July 5, 2022, 4:34 pm 0 Edit
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * email
     * Print

   First responders and police force are seen at the scene of the shooting
   at a July 4 parade in Highland Park, Ill., July 4, 2022. (Youngrae
   Kim/AFP via Getty Images)
   First responders and police force are seen at the scene of the shooting
   at a July 4 parade in Highland Park, Ill., July 4, 2022. (Youngrae
   Kim/AFP via Getty Images)

   (JTA) — In 2014, the Jewish Telegraphic Agency included Highland Park
   in an article on communities across the country that were melding
   Jewish pride into their ceremonies for July 4, which that year fell on
   Friday, just before Shabbat.

   Locals were used to seeing a 1953 pickup truck drive through their
   suburb and others along Chicago’s North Shore blaring a mashup of the
   song “Yankee Doodle Boy” with a niggun, or wordless melody, written by
   the noted Orthodox singer-songwriter Shlomo Carlebach.

   The director of a local synagogue said he passed out both American and
   Israeli flags along the North Shore parade route. “In Highland Park,”
   he told JTA, “they prefer the Israeli flag.”

   Get The Jewish Chronicle Weekly Edition by email and never miss our top
   stories Free Sign Up

   The report captures Highland Park’s sky-high levels of Jewish pride and
   provides yet another example of how Monday’s shooting that killed at
   least seven people at a July 4 parade there struck the heart of one of
   the country’s idyllic suburban Jewish capitals. (One of the two victims
   identified so far, Jacki Sundheim, was the b’nei mitzvah and event
   coordinator for the North Shore Congregation Israel in the neighboring
   suburb of Glencoe.)

   The entire North Shore region — which stretches over 20 miles along
   Lake Michigan, approximately from Evanston up to Lake Bluff — is
   heavily Jewish, and other adjacent suburbs northwest of Chicago, such
   as Buffalo Grove and Skokie, are also known for their large Jewish
   populations. But Highland Park has the highest Jewish ratio of them
   all, and it was the original Chicago suburb that grew a substantial
   Jewish population in the early 20th century.

A Chicago area ‘Jerusalem’

   According to a 2020 study of the metropolitan Chicago area by
   researchers at Brandeis University and the University of Chicago,
   Highland Park is 50% Jewish: about 15,000 of the suburb’s 30,000
   residents. (About 3% of the Jews in Highland Park and its surrounding
   towns are Israeli, the study also found.)

   Thanks to its leading number of Jewish institutions — from camps to
   synagogues to a kosher butcher and other kosher restaurants — Highland
   Park is also still a destination for Jews throughout the North Shore,
   said Jay Tcath, executive vice president of Chicago’s Jewish United
   Fund federation.

   “While there are other Jewish concentrations elsewhere in the North
   Shore, Highland Park’s still the original. Highland Park is kind of
   still the Mecca, or Jerusalem, if you will,” Tcath said.

   Highland Park’s Jewish history dates back to the turn of the 20th
   century, when Tcath said Jewish families began spending parts of their
   summers in the area. The Lake Shore Country Club opened in 1908 as
   likely the only of its kind in the area to admit Jews in neighboring
   Glencoe, but Tcath said it was “primarily populated by [people from]
   Highland Park.” In 1918, the similar Northmoor Country Club opened in
   Highland Park proper.

   Some lamenting the tragedy on social media noted how the shooting
   punctured a very affluent, normally peaceful town where several iconic
   movies ostensibly about American suburbia — from “Ferris Bueller’s Day
   Off” to “Sixteen Candles” — were filmed. Highland Park’s median
   household income was $147,067 in 2020, according to the Census Bureau,
   more than twice the national median.

   “It’s a place of movie magic and one of the 100 wealthiest cities in
   America,” tweeted the noted film critic Richard Roeper. “No place is
   safe.”

Hockey bagels and other antisemitism

   The town has avoided large-scale antisemitic incidents throughout the
   20th century — even as nearby Skokie became the site of a nationwide
   neo-Nazi march and the center of a landmark Supreme Court case in the
   late 1970s, and as West Rogers Park on Chicago’s far northwest side saw
   a white supremacist shoot to kill multiple Orthodox Jews leaving
   services in 1999.

   Tcath said that the worst for Highland Park involved antisemitic hockey
   fans from neighboring towns, who in the 1980s and 90s would throw
   bagels onto the ice when their children played against Highland Park,
   to try to intimidate and embarrass them. In 2019, Highland Park High
   School yearbooks had to be edited to remove Nazi and white supremacist
   elements from multiple students’ comments. This past April, around the
   Yom HaShoah Holocaust Remembrance Day, antisemitic flyers were found
   scattered throughout Highland Park and other North Shore communities
   (they shared qualities with others distributed in several other cities
   over the past year by the antisemitic Goyim Defense League group).

Famous Highland Park Jews

   Highland Park’s Jewish population is comparable to Squirrel Hill, the
   Pittsburgh neighborhood where a white supremacist opened fire on the
   Tree of Life synagogue in 2018, killing 11 Jewish worshippers. Like
   Squirrel Hill — which is also home to almost exactly 15,000 Jews —
   Highland Park boasts an array of synagogues spanning denominations,
   including multiple Reform congregations and the largest
   Chabad-Lubavitch center in the area, called the Central Avenue
   Synagogue.

   It has also been the hometown for several famous Jews, from “Butch
   Cassidy and the Sundance Kid” screenwriter William Goldman to Olympic
   figure skater Jason Brown. (The non-Jewish Rachel Brosnahan, who is not
   Jewish but has said her upbringing around Jewish friends helped inform
   her performance as the very Jewish comedian Midge Maisel in the
   Emmy-winning Amazon TV series “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” also hails
   from Highland Park.) Several Highland Park mayors, including the
   incumbent Nancy Rotering, have been Jewish.

   The town is rich in other 20th-century Jewish history, too. In 1967,
   Highland Park’s Congregation Solel flew a delegation into Washington,
   D.C., to protest the Vietnam War in what a JTA dispatch from the time
   called a historic move for an American congregation of any faith.
   Highland Park synagogue-goers were also active in the movement to free
   Soviet Jewry in the 1970s and 80s. Congregation Solel was led for a
   decade by Rabbi Robert Marx, a pioneering social justice activist who
   marched with Martin Luther King, Jr. and died last year at 93.

   While the Squirrel Hill shooter’s motive was clear, local police are
   still investigating the alleged Highland Park attacker, Robert “Bobby”
   Crimo III. Crimo’s father, Bob Crimo II, is a well-known local figure
   who owns multiple businesses, including a deli, and once unsuccessfully
   ran for mayor.

   Tcath said that while his organization and so many others are still
   looking into the younger Crimo’s background, Highland Park’s Jews are
   not reacting first with fears about a looming wave of specifically
   antisemitic violence. The town is heavily Democratic, and the fact that
   the incident was another of the 300-plus mass shootings in the United
   States so far in 2022 has many talking about gun reform.

   “People are shaken, but they’re not processing it as I was, or I am
   more at risk, because I live in Highland Park in particular,” Tcath
   said. “It’s being processed as, ‘This is yet another example of what
   America is today.’” PJC
   read more:
     * Highland Park
     * Chicago
     * July 4 shooting
     * Mass shooting
     * all headlines
     * national

     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * email
     * Print

comments

   November 24, 2022
   Right Now
   Recognition
   Pittsburgh Jewish Chronicle 2022 Volunteers of the Year
   Their stories are inspirational
   Repair the World Pittsburgh volunteers inoculate logs on Oct. 23. Photo
   courtesy of Repair the World Pittsburgh
   VolunteeringRepair the World volunteers find meaning in helping others
   By Adam Reinherz
   Congregation Dor Hadash welcomed a family from the Democratic Republic
   of Congo with a special door sign. Photo provided by Eve Wider.
   Welcoming the strangerCongregation Dor Hadash remains committed to
   helping refugees
   By David Rullo
   16-year-old Aryeh Schupak, killed in a bombing attack at the entrance
   of Jerusalem, Nov. 23, 2022. (Courtesy photo via The Times of Israel)
   Terror in Israel
   Deadly ‘high quality’ Jerusalem bombs planted by organized terror cell,
   police say
   By Emanuel Fabian
   Police raise level of alert amid hunt for terrorists who killed 1,
   wounded over 20 in bus stop bombings; senior cop says no specific
   warnings ahead of attack
   Daniel Libeskind. Photo by Stefan Ruiz.
   Remember Rebuild Renew
   Architect Daniel Libeskind on the new Tree of Life
   By David Rullo
   “That’s what the project is about. Celebrating freedom, celebrating
   liberty, celebrating the beautiful life of the city and of America, and
   to show what America really is.”
   Photo provided by West End Strategy.
   Remember Rebuild RenewTree of Life hires inaugural CEO
   By David Rullo
   The new Tree of Light building as seen from above with the Path of
   Light. Photo provided by West End Strategy.
   Remember Rebuild RenewTree of Life zoning hearing scheduled for Dec. 1
   By David Rullo
   Jewish Association on Aging (Photo courtesy of the Jewish Association
   on Aging)
   Crime
   Former employee charged with stealing $60,000 from JAA
   By Toby Tabachnick
   The JAA has taken steps to strengthen its internal controls, according
   to its board chair.
   Andrew Rabin and Gal Inbar. Photo by Adam Reinherz
   Tech
   Discovery Day 2022 welcomes 8 Israeli tech companies to Pittsburgh
   By Adam Reinherz
   For the past three years, 412×972 Pittsburgh Israel Innovation has
   yielded dozens of partnerships. The work continues
   Advertisement for the Jewish Encyclopedia, published in the local
   Jewish Criterion in January 1906. Dr. J. Leonard Levy of Rodef Shalom
   Congregation was an important supporter of both publications. (Jewish
   Criterion, Pittsburgh Jewish Newspaper Project)
   History
   An early history of Jewish Pittsburgh, and a hidden one
   By Eric Lidji
   A list of 116-year-old list of names reveals a community in transition
   Illustration from "How do Meerkats Orders Pizza?" by Brooke Barker
   Books
   Marsupials, lizards and jaguars share space with scientists in Brooke
   Barker’s newest book
   By Adam Reinherz
   Squirrel Hill author and illustrator gifts readers familiar style and
   fun new insights with “How Do Meerkats Order Pizza?”
   60th anniversary
   Calling all memories!
   As the Chronicle celebrates its 60th anniversary, we invite our readers
   to share what the Chronicle has meant to them throughout the years.
   Join the Chronicle Book Club!
   Chronicle poll question
   Chronicle poll results: Thanksgiving
   By Toby Tabachnick
   Penn Station (Photo by Jim Henderson, CC BY 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons)
   Antisemitism
   2 arrested at Penn Station after NYPD and FBI investigate threat to NYC
   synagogues
   By Jacob Henry and Lisa Keys
   One of the men had traveled to New York City after posting on social
   media that he might “shoot up a synagogue and die.”
   Flag of the FBI (Public Domain,
   https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=71278413)
   AntisemitismProsecutors charge New Jersey teen whose Islamist manifesto
   threatened synagogues
   By Asaf Elia-Shalev
   Protesters call for the destruction of Israel and victory for
   Palestinian terrorists, outside the JNF’s 2022 National Conference in
   Boston, Nov. 5, 2022. (Source: Canary Mission via JNS)
   AntisemitismBoston Mapping Project protest calls for an intifada
   By JNS
   Members of the Israel United in Christ hate group gathered outside
   Barclays Center Sunday, Nov. 20, 2022. (Screenshot from Twitter)
   AntisemitismAs Kyrie Irving offers ‘deep apologies,’ Black Hebrew
   Israelites rally in Brooklyn
   By Jacob Gurvis
   Thousands of rabbis pose for a group photo in front of Chabad-Lubavitch
   world headquarters in Brooklyn, New York, during the International
   Conference of Chabad-Lubavitch Emissaries, Nov. 20, 2022. (Shmulie
   Grossbaum/Chabad.org)
   Religion
   Thousands of Chabad rabbis convene in New York amid a banner year for
   their movement
   By Philissa Cramer
   Some 6,500 rabbis from all over the world descended on Crown Heights,
   Brooklyn, for the first full-size conference since 2019.
   Students from University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon and Duquesne
   University on a 2018 Birthright trip (Photo courtesy of Hillel Jewish
   University Center)
   Israel travel
   Birthright to scale back again, slashing number of free trips by up to
   a third
   By Andrew Lapin
   Birthright expects to heavily reduce its Israel trips in 2023 to as few
   as 23,500 participants, down from 35,000 this year and 45,000 annually
   pre-pandemic.
   Brandeis University sign (Credit: Kenneth C. Zirkel, CC BY-SA 4.0 via
   Wikimedia Commons)
   Shuttle bus crash
   Brandeis U reeling after bus accident leaves 1 student dead, dozens
   injured
   By Penny Schwartz
   Images and video posted to social media showed that the bus was heavily
   damaged, its front end virtually disintegrated.
   House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) speaks at the Republican
   Jewish Coalition Annual Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas, Nov. 19, 2022.
   (Wade Vandervort / AFP via Getty Images)
   Fighting antisemitism
   Kevin McCarthy promises to yank Ilhan Omar from House Foreign Affairs
   Committee
   By Ron Kampeas
   McCarthy, who will likely be the next speaker of the House, was
   addressing Jewish Republicans at the Republican Jewish Coalition’s
   conference in Las Vegas
   Great Synagogue, Florence, Italy (Photo by David Aschkenas)
   Photography
   Italian synagogues and churches showcased in Shadyside photo exhibit
   By Justin Vellucci
   Exhibit runs at the Mendelson Gallery in Shadyside on Saturdays and
   Sundays in December
   Harrison Ford and Phoebe Waller-Bridge are seen on the set of "Indiana
   Jones 5" in Sicily on Oct. 18, 2021, in Castellammare del Golfo, Italy.
   (Photo by Robino Salvatore/GC Images via Getty Images)
   Film
   Harrison Ford will fight Nazis again in forthcoming ‘Indiana Jones’
   sequel
   By Andrew Lapin
   This will be the first film in the series not to be directed by Steven
   Spielberg.
   Sweet potato, sage and wild rice (Photo by Jessica Grann)
   Food
   Sweet potato, sage and wild rice
   By Jessica Grann
   The Thanksgiving side dish you didn’t know you were missing
   Diabetes-friendly foods for Thanksgiving
   By Linda Morel
   The best grilled cheese sandwich. Period.
   By Keri White
   Pittsburgh Jewish Chroncle
   Weekly Edition
   Free to Your Inbox
   ____________________ Subscribe
   The email is either missing or invalid.
   By signing up, you agree to our terms You hereby accept The Times of
   Israel Terms of Use and Privacy Policy, and you agree to receive the
   latest news & offers from The Times of Israel and its partners or ad
   sponsors.
   Full Coverage COVID-19
     * (Image by fu zhichao via Pexels)
       Expert tips for planning your next event
       By Shari Zatman
     * Frank Fazzolari and Michael Staley drove from Charleston, West
       Virginia to participate in the DEKA Strong event at the South Hills
       JCC. Photo courtesy of Jewish Community Center of Greater
       Pittsburgh
       JCC partners with Spartan/DEKA to bolster fitness and community in
       the South Hills
       By Adam Reinherz
     * (Photo by CDS via Pexels)
       JCC to require COVID vaccines for children 4 and under
       By Toby Tabachnick

   See All
   Full Coverage Obituaries
     * Sylvia Newman
     * Rochelle Claire Landis
     * Rita (Ritadale) Kohn

   See All
   Events Calendar
   « November 2022 » loading...
   M T W T F S            S
   31
   1
   2
   3
   4
   5
   6
   7
   8
   9
   10
   11
   12
   13
   14
   15
   16
   17
   18
   19
   20
   21
   22
   23
   24
   25
   26
   27
   28
   29
   30
   1
   2
   3
   4
   Thu 24

Torah 1

   November 24 , 9:30 am - 10:30 pm
   Thu 24

Melton Core 1: Rhythms & Purposes of Jewish Living

   November 24 , 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm
   Thu 24

Melton: Social Justice – The Heart of Judaism in Theory and Practice

   November 24 , 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm
   Sun 27

Online Parashah Study Groups

   November 27 , 8:30 pm - 9:30 pm
   Tue 29

Monday Talmud Study

   November 29 , 9:15 am - 10:00 am
   Submit an Event
   PJC DIGITAL EDITION
   View previous issues
   Local
     * Illustration from "How do Meerkats Orders Pizza?" by Brooke Barker
       Books
       Marsupials, lizards and jaguars share space with scientists in
       Brooke Barker’s newest book
       By Adam Reinherz
     * Congregation Dor Hadash welcomed a family from the Democratic
       Republic of Congo with a special door sign. Photo provided by Eve
       Wider.
       Welcoming the stranger
       Congregation Dor Hadash remains committed to helping refugees
       By David Rullo
     * Daniel Libeskind. Photo by Stefan Ruiz.
       Remember Rebuild Renew
       Architect Daniel Libeskind on the new Tree of Life
       By David Rullo
     * Jewish Association on Aging (Photo courtesy of the Jewish
       Association on Aging)
       Crime
       Former employee charged with stealing $60,000 from JAA
       By Toby Tabachnick
     * Photo provided by West End Strategy.
       Remember Rebuild Renew
       Tree of Life hires inaugural CEO
       By David Rullo
     * Josh Shapiro, his family and his running mate Austin Davis bask in
       their victory on stage at The Greater Philadelphia Expo Center.
       (Photo by Jarrad Saffren)
       2022 Election
       A look at Josh Shapiro’s election night victory party
       By Jarrad Saffren
     * Co-presidents Barbara Caplan and Stephen Cohen watch Rabbi Jonathan
       Perlman affix the mezuzah to New Light Memorial Chapel's doorpost.
       Photo by Adam Reinherz
       Commemoration
       New Light Congregation honors past, looks to future, with dedicated
       cemetery chapel
       By Adam Reinherz
     * Benjamin Netanyahu speaks with President Joe Biden from his office
       in Jerusalem, Nov. 7, 2022. (Office of Benjamin Netanyahu.)
       Israel
       Jewish Pittsburghers react to Israeli election
       By David Rullo
     * Josh Shapiro speaks to the crowd at his campaign rally on Oct. 13
       at Penn State Abington. (Photo by Jarrad Saffren)
       Election 2022
       Pennsylvania elections make state firmly blue
       By David Rullo
     * Pennsylvania Lt. Gov. John Fetterman (Credit: John Fetterman
       Campaign)
       2022 Election
       John Fetterman defeats Dr. Oz in Pennsylvania Senate race
       By JNS
     * OAKS, PA - NOV. 08: Democratic gubernatorial nominee Josh Shapiro
       embraces his wife, Lori Shapiro, on stage after giving a victory
       speech to supporters at the Greater Philadelphia Expo Center on
       Nov. 8, 2022, in Oaks, Pennsylvania. Shapiro defeated Republican
       gubernatorial candidate Doug Mastriano. (Photo by Mark Makela/Getty
       Images)
       2022 Election
       Shapiro, citing Pirkei Avot, sails to victory in PA
       By Gabby Deutch | Jewish Insider
     * Josh Shapiro (Photo courtesy of Shapiro for Governor)
       2022 Election
       Josh Shapiro, who made his Jewishness a campaign focus, wins
       governor’s race
       By Andrew Lapin
     * During the primary, Summer Lee spoke at a forum organized by the
       Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh's Community Relations
       Council. (Photo by David Rullo)
       2022 Election
       Summer Lee, progressive opposed by AIPAC funding, wins Penn. House
       seat
       By Andrew Lapin
     * Republican U.S. Senate candidate Dr. Mehmet Oz speaks to supporters
       during an event at The Pines Eatery & Spirits on the final day
       before votes are cast Nov. 7, 2022, in Hazleton, Pa. (Photo by Win
       McNamee/Getty Images)
       2022 Election
       Oz urges ‘balance’ over ‘extreme’ at final PA Senate rally
       By Gabby Deutch
     * Flowers left outside the Tree of Life building on October 27, 2020.
       Photo by Adam Reinherz
       Yahrzeit
       Community encouraged to study Torah, attend services, on yahrzeit
       of Oct. 27 victims
       By Adam Reinherz
     * Rabbi Shmuley Boteach, and Dr. Mehmet Oz speak at The 2022
       Champions Of Jewish Values Gala at Carnegie Hall in New York City,
       Jan. 20, 2022. (Alexi Rosenfeld/Getty Images)
       2022 Election
       Rabbi Shmuley Boteach’s daughter is suing Mehmet Oz
       By Ron Kampeas
     * Lewis Kuller (Photo by Alan Adams/University of Pittsburgh)
       News obituary
       Lewis Kuller, longtime chair of epidemiology at Pitt, dies at 88
       By Justin Vellucci
     * Pennsylvania state Rep. Summer Lee (Photo by Mark Dixon)
       2022 Election
       In Pittsburgh House race, Jewish Democrats torn on backing Summer
       Lee
       By Matthew Kassel | Jewish Insider
     * Former U.S. President Barack Obama speaks to supporters of
       Pennsylvania Democratic candidate for Senate John Fetterman at
       Schenley Plaza, on the campus of the University of Pittsburgh, Nov.
       5, 2022. (Jeff Swensen/Getty Images)
       2022 Election
       Obama denounces antisemitic conspiracy theories and the celebrities
       who post them
       By Ron Kampeas
     * State Rep. Dan Frankel confirms his endorsement of fellow Democrat
       Summer Lee at a Nov. 4 event in Squirrel Hill (Photo courtesy of
       Dan Frankel's office)
       2022 Election
       Event in support of Summer Lee leaves some questions unanswered
       By Toby Tabachnick

   Features
     * Shawn Brokos and Rabbi Elisar Admon. Photo by Adam Reinherz
       Duquesne University
       Rabbi and former FBI agent team up to teach cultural sensitivity to
       nursing students
       By Adam Reinherz
     * Grilled cheese (Photo by Keri White)
       Food
       The best grilled cheese sandwich. Period.
       By Keri White
     * Recognition
       Pittsburgh Jewish Chronicle 2022 Volunteers of the Year
     * Harrison Ford and Phoebe Waller-Bridge are seen on the set of
       "Indiana Jones 5" in Sicily on Oct. 18, 2021, in Castellammare del
       Golfo, Italy. (Photo by Robino Salvatore/GC Images via Getty
       Images)
       Film
       Harrison Ford will fight Nazis again in forthcoming ‘Indiana Jones’
       sequel
       By Andrew Lapin
     * Great Synagogue, Florence, Italy (Photo by David Aschkenas)
       Photography
       Italian synagogues and churches showcased in Shadyside photo
       exhibit
       By Justin Vellucci
     * Sweet potato, sage and wild rice (Photo by Jessica Grann)
       Food
       Sweet potato, sage and wild rice
       By Jessica Grann
     * Repair the World Pittsburgh volunteers inoculate logs on Oct. 23.
       Photo courtesy of Repair the World Pittsburgh
       Volunteering
       Repair the World volunteers find meaning in helping others
       By Adam Reinherz
     * Andrew Rabin and Gal Inbar. Photo by Adam Reinherz
       Tech
       Discovery Day 2022 welcomes 8 Israeli tech companies to Pittsburgh
       By Adam Reinherz
     * 60th anniversary
       Calling all memories!
     * Whipped sweet potatoes (Photo by bhofack2/ iStock/ Getty Images
       Plus)
       Food
       Diabetes-friendly foods for Thanksgiving
       By Linda Morel
     * Rabinowitz Torah (Photo courtesy of David Nadoff)
       Family treasure
       A Torah’s journey: From Lithuania to Pennsylvania to Israel
       By Justin Vellucci
     * Books
       Join the Chronicle Book Club!
     * (Image by fu zhichao via Pexels)
       Opinion
       Expert tips for planning your next event
       By Shari Zatman
     * Jan, Kenny Steinberg and Nancy Gale. Photo courtesy of Rebel Fox
       Strengthening Community
       JRS rebrands, extends work while maintaining Jewish roots
       By Adam Reinherz
     * Jeff Wilbusch as Jewish NYPD Detective Avraham Avraham in "The
       Calling" which begins streaming on Peacock on Nov. 10. (Heidi
       Gutman/Peacock)
       Streaming
       In new miniseries ‘The Calling,’ an NYPD detective’s Judaism helps
       him solve crimes
       By Julia Gergely
     * In “Plan A,” Michael (Michael Aloni) wants to make it clear to Max
       (August Diehl) that only one man is in the driver’s seat. (Photo
       courtesy of Menemsha Films)
       Film
       Israeli actor Michael Aloni is a hero in ‘Plan A’
       By Alan Zeitlin | JNS
     * Montana Tucker’s docu-series, “How to: Never Forget” has drawn
       millions of views on the TikTok platform. (Source: SoulShop
       Studios.)
       Holocaust education
       A Jewish social media influencer makes a Holocaust documentary for
       a new generation
       By Mike Wagenheim | JNS
     * Sheet pan chicken and potatoes (Photo by Jessica Grann)
       Food
       Sheet pan chicken and potatoes
       By Jessica Grann
     * There's no question, you're about to hear something special. Photo
       of DJ Digital Dave at DJ Collective by Phillip Van Nostrand
       Behind the turntables
       When it comes to tunes, golden oldies still shining at Pittsburgh
       parties
       By Adam Reinherz
     * Photo by CasparGirl via Flickr at
       flickr.com/photos/82236391@N08/7549940252
       Party Planning
       Most popular menu items: prudence and dietary restrictions
       By Adam Reinherz

   Opinion
     * Ethiopian olim arrive at Ben Gurion Airport in Israel on Feb. 26,
       2021 (Photo by Kim Salzman)
       Opinion
       Sigd, a holiday preserved by Ethiopian Jews for centuries,
       celebrated this week
       By Tuvia Book
     * Case Western Reserve University Alumni Center. Photo courtesy of
       flickr.com
       Opinion
       Another student government condemns Israel and endangers Jewish
       students
       By Liora Rez
     * The traditional blue tzedakah box. (Photo courtesy of JNF)
       Opinion
       The impact of giving: A call to action
       By Brian Eglash
     * (Photo from Flash90)
       Opinion
       Letters to the editor
     * (File photo)
       Torah
       Blessings
       By Cantor Rena Shapiro
     * Poll
       Chronicle poll results: Thanksgiving
       By Toby Tabachnick
     * Poll
       Chronicle poll question
     * Dave Chappelle, Sept. 9, 2018. (Credit: John Bauld via Wikimedia
       Commons)
       Opinion
       Dave Chappelle and normalizing Black antisemitism
       By Jonathan S. Tobin
     * Poll
       Chronicle poll results: Voting and Israel
       By Toby Tabachnick
     * Squirrel Hill Food Pantry shelves. Photo provided by Allie Reefer.
       Opinion
       How will you support your neighbors in need the day after
       Thanksgiving?
       By Jordan Golin
     * (Photo from Flash90)
       Opinion
       Letters to the Editor
     * (File photo)
       Torah
       The many lives of Sarah
       By Rabbi Moishe Mayir Vogel
     * Poll
       Chronicle poll question
     * Kyrie Irving speaks to reporters, Nov. 3, 2022. (Screenshot)
       Opinion
       The Kyrie case isn’t about ‘Blacks vs. Jews.’ It’s about bigotry.
       By Andrew Silow-Carroll
     * Benjamin Netanyahu speaks with President Joe Biden from his office
       in Jerusalem, Nov. 7, 2022. (Office of Benjamin Netanyahu.)
       Opinion
       Why Israelis like me voted in a right-wing government
       By Sara Yoheved Rigler
     * Ashalim Power Station byMussi KatzFollow courtesy of flickr.com
       Opinion
       To save the planet, encourage Middle Eastern partnerships
       By Isaac Herzog
     * (Photo from Flash90)
       Opinion
       Letters to the editor
     * (File photo)
       Torah
       G-d laughs
       By Rabbi Eli Seidman
     * Poll
       Chronicle poll results: Voting
       By Toby Tabachnick
     * Poll
       Chronicle poll question

   National
     * Members of the Israel United in Christ hate group gathered outside
       Barclays Center Sunday, Nov. 20, 2022. (Screenshot from Twitter)
       Antisemitism
       As Kyrie Irving offers ‘deep apologies,’ Black Hebrew Israelites
       rally in Brooklyn
       By Jacob Gurvis
     * Thousands of rabbis pose for a group photo in front of
       Chabad-Lubavitch world headquarters in Brooklyn, New York, during
       the International Conference of Chabad-Lubavitch Emissaries, Nov.
       20, 2022. (Shmulie Grossbaum/Chabad.org)
       Religion
       Thousands of Chabad rabbis convene in New York amid a banner year
       for their movement
       By Philissa Cramer
     * House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) speaks at the
       Republican Jewish Coalition Annual Leadership Meeting in Las Vegas,
       Nov. 19, 2022. (Wade Vandervort / AFP via Getty Images)
       Fighting antisemitism
       Kevin McCarthy promises to yank Ilhan Omar from House Foreign
       Affairs Committee
       By Ron Kampeas
     * Brandeis University sign (Credit: Kenneth C. Zirkel, CC BY-SA 4.0
       via Wikimedia Commons)
       Shuttle bus crash
       Brandeis U reeling after bus accident leaves 1 student dead, dozens
       injured
       By Penny Schwartz
     * Penn Station (Photo by Jim Henderson, CC BY 4.0 via Wikimedia
       Commons)
       Antisemitism
       2 arrested at Penn Station after NYPD and FBI investigate threat to
       NYC synagogues
       By Jacob Henry and Lisa Keys
     * Larry David scoffs at the idea of investing in cryptocurrency in a
       Super Bowl ad for FTX that aired Feb. 13, 2022. (Screenshot via
       YouTube)
       Litigation
       In a Super Bowl ad, Larry David joked about cryptocurrency. Now
       he’s getting sued for promoting FTX.
       By Jackie Hajdenberg
     * Mel Brooks — who was nominated for a 2023 Grammy — at his Hollywood
       Walk of Fame ceremony in 2010 (Angela George, , via Wikimedia
       Commons)
       Audio
       This year’s Jewish Grammy nominees span every genre
       By Gabe Friedman
     * (Image via Pexels)
       Respect for Marriage Act
       Orthodox Union says it is satisfied with religious liberty
       protections in Senate’s version of Respect for Marriage Act
       By Philissa Cramer
     * Louis Farrakhan (Tasnim News Agency, CC BY 4.0 , via Wikimedia
       Commons)
       Antisemitism
       Farrakhan on Ye, Kyrie scandals: Jews never apologized for raping
       and killing blacks
       By JNS
     * President Donald J. Trump in his conference room at Walter Reed
       National Military Medical Center (Official White House Photo by Tia
       Dufour)
       Politics
       Donald Trump is running for president, again. Here’s what American
       Jews should know.
       By Ron Kampeas
     * Flag of the FBI (Public Domain,
       https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=71278413)
       Antisemitism
       Prosecutors charge New Jersey teen whose Islamist manifesto
       threatened synagogues
       By Asaf Elia-Shalev
     * Dave Chappelle on "Saturday Night Live." Nov. 12, 2022 (Screenshot)
       Antisemitism
       Dave Chappelle focuses ‘SNL’ monologue on ‘the Jews’ and Kanye
       West’s antisemitism
       By Andrew Silow-Carroll
     * Protesters call for the destruction of Israel and victory for
       Palestinian terrorists, outside the JNF’s 2022 National Conference
       in Boston, Nov. 5, 2022. (Source: Canary Mission via JNS)
       Antisemitism
       Boston Mapping Project protest calls for an intifada
       By JNS
     * A tweet from an account impersonating AIPAC was online for hours
       Thursday night, in one of many signs of Twitter's chaos since its
       acquisition by Elon Musk. (Screenshot)
       Social media
       Fake AIPAC’s endorsement of apartheid goes viral
       By Philissa Cramer
     * Josh Shapiro speaks to supporters at an event in Philadelphia, Oct.
       8, 2022. (Mark Makela/Getty Images)
       2022 Election
       5 quick takeaways for American Jews from the 2022 midterm elections
       By Ron Kampeas and Gabe Friedman
     * (Getty Images)
       Antisemitism
       New Jersey synagogue threat ‘no longer considered active,’ local
       Jews are told
       By Philissa Cramer
     * Kyrie Irving speaks to reporters, Nov. 3, 2022. (Screenshot)
       Antisemitism
       Kyrie Irving apologizes for antisemitism controversy after Brooklyn
       Nets suspend him
       By Jacob Gurvis and Gabe Friedman
     * A sign outside of Beigel's bakery in Canarsie, Brooklyn. (Google
       Maps)
       Tragic death
       Worker at famed Brooklyn kosher bakery found dead in freezer
       By Jacob Henry
     * (Getty Images)
       Antisemitism
       FBI reports ‘credible threat’ to New Jersey synagogues
       By Ron Kampeas
     * Kanye West in 2009 (Photo by David Shankbone, public domain via
       Wikimedia Commons)
       Antisemitism
       Kanye West paid a settlement to former employee over antisemitic
       rants in 2018
       By Andrew Lapin

   World
     * Students from University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon and
       Duquesne University on a 2018 Birthright trip (Photo courtesy of
       Hillel Jewish University Center)
       Israel travel
       Birthright to scale back again, slashing number of free trips by up
       to a third
       By Andrew Lapin
     * 16-year-old Aryeh Schupak, killed in a bombing attack at the
       entrance of Jerusalem, Nov. 23, 2022. (Courtesy photo via The Times
       of Israel)
       Terror in Israel
       Deadly ‘high quality’ Jerusalem bombs planted by organized terror
       cell, police say
       By Emanuel Fabian
     * Medics remove the body of a man murdered in a stabbing attack
       earlier, outside Ariel, in the West Bank, on Nov. 15 (Photo via
       JTA)
       Mideast violence
       Palestinian assailant kills 3 Israelis in the West Bank before
       being shot dead
       By Ron Kampeas
     * "Welcome to KFC" is written above a drive-in menu at the fast food
       chain Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) in Duesseldorf, Nov. 18, 2020.
       (Rolf Vennenbernd/picture alliance via Getty Images)
       Oops
       KFC Germany apologizes for ‘treat yourself’ chicken promotion tied
       to Kristallnacht
       By Andrew Lapin
     * A 17th century BCE inscription in early Canaanite script from
       Lachish, incised on an ivory lice comb. (Dafna Gazit, Israel
       Antiquities Authority)
       Archaeology
       Researchers unearth first-ever Canaanite sentence found in Israel
       By By JNS
     * In Graz, Austria, onlookers watch a smoldering synagogue the
       morning after Kristallnacht, Nov. 10, 1938 (Public domain)
       Antisemitism
       German institute lashed for Tel Aviv ‘Shoah, Nakba’ event on date
       of Kristallnacht
       By Lazar Berman
     * Benjamin Netanyahu speaks with President Joe Biden from his office
       in Jerusalem, Nov. 7, 2022. (Office of Benjamin Netanyahu.)
       Israeli elections
       Biden congratulates Netanyahu on win — is told to expect more
       normalization deals
       By Ron Kampeas
     * Benjamin Netanyahu (File photo)
       Israeli election
       Decisive victory: Netanyahu’s bloc secures 64 mandates
       By JNS
     * Rabbi A. James Rudin, a longtime interfaith activist, will be
       knighted for his work in Catholic-Jewish relations. (Screenshot via
       YouTube)
       International honor
       Reform rabbi to be knighted by Pope for his work on Jewish-Catholic
       relations
       By Jackie Hajdenberg
     * Benjamin Netanyahu speaking at the Munich Security Conference, 2017
       (Photo from public domain)
       Israeli elections
       With 86% of votes tallied, Netanyahu headed for decisive comeback
       victory
       By Michael Bachner
     * Campaign posters show Yair Lapid next to the Ayalon Highway in Tel
       Aviv, Oct. 26, 2022. (Jamal Awad/Flash90)
       Israeli politics
       Israel’s upcoming election and its high stakes for democracy,
       explained
       By Gabe Friedman
     * Russian chief rabbi Berel Lazar addresses a gathering of Russian
       rabbis in Moscow on September 5, 2022. (Federation of Jewish
       Communities of Russia)
       Retraction
       Top Russian security official apologizes after deputy calls Chabad
       a cult
       By Judah Ari Gross
     * Navi Pillay, chair of the "United Nations Commission of Inquiry on
       the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including East Jerusalem, and
       Israel," addresses a press conference. (U.N. Photo/Jean-Marc Ferré)
       Anti-Zionism
       UN Commission of Inquiry says it will investigate ‘apartheid’
       charges against Israel
       By Mike Wagenheim | JNS
     * Israeli Prime Minister Yair Lapid shakes hands with U.S. negotiator
       Amos Hochstein at the defense ministry in Tel Aviv, Oct. 27, 2022.
       (Amos Ben-Gershom/ Israel Government Press Office)
       Diplomacy
       Israel and Lebanon sign US-brokered maritime boundaries deal
       By Ron Kampeas
     * Part of the University of Potsdam (Photo by A.Savin, FAL, via
       Wikimedia Commons)
       Harassment
       Prominent rabbi abused power but can still teach, German university
       investigation concludes
       By Toby Axelrod
     * Russian chief rabbi Berel Lazar addresses a gathering of Russian
       rabbis in Moscow on September 5, 2022. (Federation of Jewish
       Communities of Russia)
       Antisemitism
       Ex-Moscow chief rabbi calls on Russia Jews to flee after top
       official attacks Chabad
       By Judah Ari Gross
     * Hamas mural in West Bank (Graffiti: unknown author; Photo: Soman,
       CC BY-SA 2.5 via Wikimedia Commons)
       Terrorism
       3 Israelis charged in Hamas plot to sabotage telecom networks used
       by IDF during war
       By Emanuel Fabian and Michael Bachner
     * Jerusalem (Photo courtesy of Pixabay)
       Foreign relations
       In reversal, Australia won’t recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s
       capital
       By Philissa Cramer
     * A picture shows a view of an Israeli military base at Rosh Hanikra,
       known in Lebanon as Ras al-Naqura, at the border between the two
       countries, Oct. 4, 2022. (Jalaa Marey/AFP via Getty Images)
       Historic deal
       Israel’s government approves maritime accord with Lebanon
       By Ron Kampeas
     * Ancient Jerusalem, model (Image by Svetlana from Pixabay)
       Sukkot
       The ancient Jewish practice of hakhel gets a 21st-century revival
       By Jackie Hajdenberg

   Scroll to view more
